Speaker 1: Hello. Welcome. I'm so glad to to introduce Han Tan, who, we who I met and a number of us met, at the at the MediGo House at, the Dow Harvard conference a few weeks ago and just had an extraordinary conversation about SidaU. I know some of us who are at Denver also encountered folks from the SidaU community, a a leading, Dow project in, the Chinese context, particularly among people who are in the Chinese diaspora. And and they're doing some really interesting things around governance and culture, and and I was just super excited after hearing that conversation to to bring into the the Medigob seminar. So please take it away.

Speaker 2: Okay. Thank you. Thank you so much, Nathan. Now, actually, I'm in Zuzalu, so it's kind of noisy here because there are some people, and I'm outside. So today, I'm going to introduce to you, and I'm very interesting about the topic you just talked before. It's that one person, one vote, which is, I think CEDAW have already, has already experienced that kind of period which caused a lot of problems. So, before my sharing, I can give a very quick brief about Sidao's history. So at the very first beginning of Sidao, there is a company named Crypto c. So at that time, it's operated by a company, and found that the community has their own awareness. They want to have power. They want to take control. So then we become into the half vote community and half a company. Then we found that it's very hard to balance that because the company staff has their own interest. They want to listen to their boss, and they want the boss to send them money. Actually, I'm the boss, and they talked to me that I'm serving you, and then you just give me some money. But as their community members, they don't want to do like that. They have their own interest. And little by little, there is a very, very huge conflict between DAO members and the conflict company staffs. I think a lot of DAO and companies may experience that such as the Mirror DAO. There is a core contributors in, in CDAO who is also the contributor in MiraDAO. At last, the mirror decide to I mean, some kind of, like, give up their their community beds, keep the company bed. Our choice is to keep the community and dismiss the company. And we transfer all the money we raise from the company to our Dallas treasury, and then we start to explore the governance model. At first, it's very like a mess because we want people to go off, and we give there a lot of, I mean, governance power, like, one person will vote for something. And and something is very centralized because they think the one person will vote cannot solve all the problems. So they I mean, the community members don't believe in that kind of mechanisms, so they became seeking out me. They say, you raised the money. You are the founder, so let's give up one personal vote, and you you just decide. We we found it's very efficiency to do that. So for, like, one month, I decided everything, but it's very, very tired, and I know it's it cannot long be very long. And this kind of behavior cause a lot of, like, judgment, they say it's not doubt. So after that one month, we decide to choose nine members in the doubt to draft our own constitution. It take hours three months to draft our, CDAO's constitution. We call it metal, like, the, metal protocol. So, I will go through the metal protocol to show you how the CDAO's, I mean, the governance model is. So after that, we decide to take we decide to take this kind of governance model. It's not totally one person, one vote. It's to figure out who is the core contributors of the DAO. It's try to build governance model based on the contribution level. Not everybody have the vote power, everything, but to give them some, like, I mean, level, and try to let the people who are very concerned about listening to vote. So and later later on, we decide to take a very flexible governance mode, which means that we can revise we can even revise our constitution according to some mechanism, and we can, like say, if there is a law, which is

Speaker 3: the constitution, which is a level two level one law, level two law, and how to,

Speaker 2: like, to when there is conflict, how to deal with that. So it it just be more clear and clear, and then we start our own, DAOs governance model. Now, I will just go through to the cDAOs meta protocol to see what we have now. And then, yes, I'm going to share this the screen. So before we, set our constitution, we also did a lot of research to the such as how, the bankless DAO, also w FWB and a lot of a lot of DAOs. We also study something about, like, the Americans' constitution since we are going to make a constitution, and also the something about the China's I mean, history. Because history is so much important to make the history and culture is very important to say the constitution, because there are some, like, common knowledge, which is very important. So we decided to build CTA as a network policy. We have a lot of acumen whether it's network state states or policy, but unless we choose to build a policy because policy, emperors so it's more human. Human is very important in CADA. CDAO's I mean, CDAO's asset is the most important asset in CDAO is the human. It's not the treasury's tokens or, like, USDC, USDT, even CDAO's tokens. Human matters. I mean, if we want to see the, CDOS tokens to the the price of CDOS going to rise, the reason is to attract more better human to come in. It's not that, do something to let the token's price to rise. It's not the end. End is to attract better people to to come in coming. It's just an a tool. I mean, price is just a tool. So it's another policy build down upon blockchains, and we think is, there are two parts of it. One is the, is based in blockchain and one is based in the real world and the which is the most important thing is the

Speaker 3: the

Speaker 2: relation based on blockchain because it's it can't be revised or destroyed by a central part like the network states or something else. This is very important. I will tell you why it's important in Singdau, especially of voice mission. And then it's governed and shared by its members. So we really emphasize the importance of human and the code master of people. It's not that code is low, but the code and logos for the people. And according to that, we are going to build some infrastructure such as some DAO tools, which I can show you because has already show, I mean, how powerful is productive it is and public services and governance for that. So, we just figure out, we just make clear who is the CDOS members according to the, I mean, the, we call it proof of work ledger. SADA is a a network of contributor. You cannot buy an asset to join SADA. You cannot, say, buy an NFT, like a BOIC or as a key or, like, a backless token or f w token to join CDOT. No. The only way to join CDOT I mean, the most the best way to join CDOT is to be the contributor, and the second thing is that you can buy SGM. But we have a lot of limitation of this LFT. If you don't be the contributor, some in some way, you may lose some power if you only hold this LFT, so it's not the most important thing. The most important is to be a contributor. So to do that, we really, really, emphasize on the SBTC use. So we think as a DAO, we need to balance the use of the liquid tokens and also the untransferable tokens, especially the SPD tokens in which we build our reputation system. Yeah. And, after that, we emphasize, education much much more than both. I think based I think this is partly because that in the Asian's culture or the Chinese culture, in some way we think the education is more important to, I mean, to build the consents consensus between DAO members. If we really want to build to build the the consensus, we need to focus more on education. So first educate and then vote. So we need to let people know the history of the doubt. If the doubt becomes, I mean, larger and larger, at first, it's just, like, 100 people, and now it's more than 10,000 members, and a lot of people have the most power, and they need to vote to decide the things, make decisions. They need to know the information, especially the history. If they don't know the history, they would be, like, very blind. Their choices can be, I mean, very stupid. So, learn history also means to educate. So, the, the first way to join CEDAW is to learn the history, and then you need to pass our test, learn learn the history and to pass the test, get a SBC, and you can become our contributor. Then you you can contribute, and all your, reputation level, is going to your contribution. Then in this part, we can talk about the governance the governance model. So if you really want to build a thing, I think if you really build a thing to make it wrong, it's better not to be very, very extreme. For example, very, very extreme on, like, democracy. Everything is one person, one note on everything. We tried, but we really, really failed, and it's very painful. But if it's very centralized, we also tried, and I feel very, very painful. I think I I don't want to do that kind of thing. So we decided to do to to be on the way that we should balance top top down and bottom up. And sometimes it can be kind of top down. It sometimes can be bottom up. It can be dynamic, but we need to adjust and be very flexible. This is how the DAO runs, and then it should be a meta level. It's very large. It's very practical. And there is a organic state. It means that if you want to build a very open and transparent organization, information is very important. For I think for most people in a DAO, if they have the same level of the knowledge framework, the information is very important. But a lot of information, some people have more information because they are more focused on this kind of thing, so we really encourage people to flow in one part of the DAO to another part. For example, from one gelt, for example, you are the gelt of the translator guild. You're the leader of translator guild, then we encourage you to float to another guild or another project or even to be the governor of the DAO. Do not try to be the in the role for, like, three months or even one year, like a full time, just like you are you are you are in your company. You are you become a work full time working in a company. We we don't really encourage that. Try to flow and find what you really want and to do something and make you be more diversified. I mean, make a person to know more things is healthy to his own development and then to be open and transparent. It means that the information, especially the, how we use the mounting and how we make the very big decision is all on chain, and everybody can I mean, according to the law that they have the power to comment and even to activate or visually revise the watch that? So this is our principles. According to that, then we build our governance. This is our this is our framework. So as a new members, you can work in the projects and the Gaussing the DAO is kind of I I think it's very similar to bank list, but which is which is different is that bank list is kind of non organized non organized. So to fix this problem, we just proposed that we should have the I mean, the CDAOs notes, consensus congress, which is the highest which is the highest policymaker. It's not me. According to the constitution, we we have this conference every three months. In USA, every four years, you can you your president. So in SEDOW, the governors will go to the SEDOW's council. This is our governor. So the governor will be responsible for the, I mean, routine, policy making and also, they should provide the public service for this. But they can also because every three months we are choose again, so very hard to let the the power to be very centralized, very However, for this policy combination, which is about how to let the the commercial project to grow up, we need a very professional people. I wish we need very professional people to be there. For example, they should know about the knowledge how to build the commercial applications or, so it's kind of centralized, but it's also transparent. So, DAO members should know everything about what's happening, how is our money go, and how and why are we investing this kind of project. So they should also report to the CDAO's notes, consensus congress. This is the highest policymaker, and this congress can even have right to revise the our constitution, but it's in a very strict rate ratio and, I mean, approve approving ratio. So according to that, we build our governance system. So what is the nodes of CDAO? Is that one person remote? In some level, it is because a node must be a core contributor, and a contributor must be a human. So so when we say that cDAU is a network of policy, if we say that policy's most important asset is people or human, the node should be the human. It's not the money. Like, if you hold more NFTs or more tokens, then what kind of number that you can beat a node. It's not it's just the human, and one person won't vote. But not everybody can vote. It's just your contributor level should be beyond or above some numbers. For example, your, contributor contribution scores should be beyond, 10 I mean, 10 does not tell you the 100,000 scores, which means that you you contribute more than, five hundred hours in this DAO or even longer. For someone even longer, you can have the vote power. And if you stop contributing to this DAO, according to, an I I don't know how to talk about it. So according to a function, your vote power will decrease. So, for example, if you don't if you stop for working for the style for one year, you may lose your nose. You you you will not be the nose anymore, and the newcomer can be the nose. So not the the old people won't have has the power of always. So according to this framework, we do a lot of practice, and we also do some, I mean, rewind realization about this, this model. In the chapter three, it shows that what the notes congress no no consensus congress power. So it has a lot of power, like election. They can elect the governors, and they have the power to authorize the budget. The budget is very important because, you know, in the in the operation of those, money is very important where the budget the budget the budget was given by this congress. It can be large and it becomes can be small and people can vote. And before we have this this this congress, we it will take us one week to discuss about all the, like, the proposals that air that, the DAO members propose into so so before we vote, we need to have a open discussion. Sometimes it's it's either open speech, and then we vote. There should not be enough there should not be a vote if we we doesn't if we don't have enough discussion. It's not our governance tradition. So that's it. And therefore the second nature is kind of centralized, but we need a balance. If in one doubt if in a doubt, everything's decentralized, but one party is centralized, there can be a possibility that I mean, the power become centralized in this part because people there's a tendency that people people seek seek to cooperate with something which is very very certain, not uncertain. But decentralized also means uncertain. You need to vote. It take times. It's kind of efficiency. You need to lobby. So, there's a tendency. So we we really need to balance this kind of tendency. That's why there is also a limitation that they should also report to the can they're they're they should also report to the congress, and also the congress also has the power to decide whether we should keep the c combinator or not. I mean, because the congress has the power to revise the constitution, and everything is about the constitution. So they also have the power to choose whether we keep or we try to just tick tick off this this this organization. So our last is the guild and the projects, which is the I mean, there are a lot of guilds and projects in in in. There's where most of the people or most of the members contribute for. For example, like, the developer guild and the and, like, translator guild and most articles and also applications are built by them. So the government has a server for them. And, also, they have they have a lot of, I mean, autonomy. It's not like the communist department. We have a discuss a lot about that. It's not like the communist department. It's like I have no idea whether it's like a police. But it's it has its own it may maybe its own law and its own, like, reputation system, and we can serve for the girls and the projects. If it's a nonprofit nonprofit, we will give ZDAS tokens to inspire them. And if it's profitable, it should tell us how much that profit should be given to the treasury. For example, if one project, they make 100 US dollars as a profit, maybe 10%, like, $10 should be given to CDL's treasury. That's how we make the public treasury. There's some, some profit can can return to that. So, so that's our our governor's model, and this is tog tokenomics model. Model, you can see that the visible object is POW. The POW means the total proof of work. It's not the machine to work. It's not to say it's a Bitcoin's machine, and you use the computer power to get the coins. It's it's human's work. It's human's work. Like, if you care about your if you care about your DAO members and you provide counsel, like, about their their mental health problems, it also is a kind of work, and you can also get a cell call in some of theirs. There's it's the it's the project. So so that's it. And in the last chapter is the how to revise our constitution. So after that, we also choose a lot of we did a lot of I mean, in addition, after that, we also proposed our, I mean, p three proposal system. We have our three three layered proposal system. We found that if we choose to only give in give the governance power for the level three contributor, Most of the CDOW's contributor won't have any power, so it's kind of I mean, it's it's unfair, but it's also a lot of people don't want to contribute, especially if they are not the core contributors. So so they all all also, they want some power. So we so we divided, like, five level. In the first level, it's, like, 5,000 CDOW scores. So if your contribution level reach to the Cvent, then you can propose a p one proposal and p two and then when you, contribution scores reach that more than two, 20,000 scores, then you get the p two proposal and the p three proposals. The proposal's power is about how to use CDOW's the treasury's money. I mean, CDOW's tokens and also the USDC or USDT in our treasury. It's not decided by whether you are the I mean, whether you are the founder or where whether you are the governor, but it's about whether you are the co contributor or how much you contribute to this organization. So it's like a game. So like a game, if you part if you are joined the game, you're a newcomer, maybe you just need to learn what's the game's rule. If you learn what is the game's rule, then you can start your own journey in this game. Your score become more and more, and you have more and more power, and then maybe you can be the GENS. I mean, you can you can you can change the GENS rules. So it's not one it's kind of one person, one vote, but it's one core contributor, one vote. Yeah. So kinda kinda like that. Some people are also cool about us, like, we are the digital core operatives because how much you contribute and how many you get from the CDA from CDA. The money, also the reputation, and also the social relations they start. And because of this candles, I mean, governance model, you can see a lot of things happening. Like, the students also maybe the student wishes is still, like, 19 years old or 20 years old. They they work as contributors with the person who are already, I mean, very rich because and and they also maybe they are the teacher or professor in in a in a school, and it's kind of it's kind of equal. And, I mean, I mean, it provides some kind of freedom when people choose to work with each other. It's not because of your title and also how much social resources you have already mastered or controlled, but it let people to contribute in the co work co co work with each other in a more comfortable way. Yeah. So based on that, we we really build a lot of things. For example, we build our you know, we are very focused on on our education. So the first application we build is this school, which is a decentralized education system. We can learn a lot of things in that, and then we get education, SPT, and we can, give each kind of SPT, I mean, token gate work, job opportunity and also token gate gate you a vote vote opportunity. If you don't learn, maybe you don't you don't vote. If you want vote, you learn. Yeah. And, also, there's this is our reputation system with miss InSou. And so is this is a tool to distribute our, soul bounty token, which is very important, I mean, very important to in seed of governance model. And, also, we build Dowling. Because we found that, you know, the Discord is really disgusting. We really, really hate Discord because if there is more than 10,000 people in one Discord, there will be a lot of channels, and you will see it's a disaster. Talk with the chatter in these channels. Maybe you can have a very I mean

Speaker 1: Excuse me?

Speaker 2: Yeah. Can you hear me?

Speaker 1: Yeah. Yeah. We can hear you fine. I'm sorry to interrupt. I just wanna say, as much as I I'm totally in favor of of the takedown in Discord, and I don't wanna interrupt that. But I do want to make sure that we get some time for discussion. So are you able to wrap up in the next minute or so?

Speaker 2: Yes. Yes. I'm over I'm already finished. So yes, I'm finished. You can ask the questions, and we can have discussion. Yeah.

Speaker 1: Okay. We we haven't had much come up yet, but everyone please share you know, if you'd like to join in with a question, please let us know in the chat. I I just you know, maybe relevant to what you were getting to today or getting to just there. I wonder if you could just start, just add on a little bit about, like, what a day in the life is in the context of CDOW. Like, you've talked a lot about the structure and governance, but I just love to know, like, what is it that that you personally, for instance, or the average member is getting out of this community on a daily basis? What are the kinds of things that that, it does and has value for you? And then it we now have another question from, Chase, which maybe you could get to after right after that.

Speaker 3: Did

Speaker 1: did you hear my question okay?

Speaker 2: Can you repeat that?

Speaker 1: Yeah. Just, I I was curious about what, you know, a day in the life is likely. You know, what what how's how being a member of CDAO, you know, affects your, you know, what what you get out of it on a daily basis? What what is the what is the value for you as a person to want to participate in this community?

Speaker 2: Oh, that's a very good question. We discussed it a lot in CDOW, but the the but it's very interesting that different people have different answers of c of of these questions even we have in real life activities. For example, we have in real life activities in Beijing, Shanghai, and Hong Kong. Every activity we asked our DAO members, so why do you join our organizations, and what's your answers? And it's very surprising that everybody has their own answers too because the DAO is so large. It's like when you join a country, like, when I become the member of USA, Actually, so many people have so different but a lot of people say that when they join, they can be onboarding to Web three because we provide a lot of free education about Web three. You don't need to pay, and there are more than, 200, courses about Web three. This is the first thing, and the next thing is that there is a very huge community, and people like to help with each help each other. It's not just about in West. There are a lot of, Web three communities that just talk about in Westing. They don't care about each other. But in CETA, we have our have our, mechanism to encourage people to help help each other, especially to care about how much knowledge you have and do you have your job? I will recommend you with a job, and I I can tell you what's happening outside. And the third is that is a very, very global community. It's very important for the Chinese because in China I mean, for China, it's very different. Like, in USA, maybe you know everything about the world, but in China, we really want to know what's happening what's actually happening outside. We want the real information about outside world, what's happening in London, what's happening, like, in San Francisco, in New York, and information meaning opportunity and also the truth. It's very important. And also some people are, like, the the com company's system. So yes. And they are some entrepreneur because they're saying join can help their applications to get more real users, which is very, very hard in web three. And some developers think they that they can do it more interesting. They can find some institution in this stuff. I mean, it's so complicated, so the answers will be very, very different. And the stories are so amazing. Yeah. Yeah. That's it.

Speaker 1: Thank you. I'm gonna combine a couple questions here from Chase and Coin just about the proposal process. First of all, Coin asked how long a proposal and discussion process takes, and then Chase asked about whether you've had issues with bribing for votes, or other forms of voter fraud.

Speaker 2: Mhmm. So, it's a very it's a very good question. It's what we have already we have talked a lot in. So our principle is that if something don't need to be put on blockchain, just don't code because it's very inefficient, it's useless, and it's very cost. You need to pay a lot. So nowadays, we're using the Ethereum and the Polygon for our core asset. I mean, the asset, like the NFT, CDAL's NFTs, the the floor price is 0.5 ETH. I mean, it's kind of important asset for CDAL. So that's in Ethereum. And for the SPT, we put in on Polygon, but if there is a very poor market and the price the gas fee in Polygon is very expensive and high, we may and we we may choose another trend because the you know, if we distribute so many SPGs for them, oh, 100,000 SPGs, the gas fee can be a lot of expense. Yeah. And, for our proposal system, we use the meta forum. Only the core information is online, but the proposal itself is not online. And for some text, we we've just put on in our reef. Our reef is very good. I mean, it's a very good infrastructure. You don't need to pay a lot of money. It's very cheap that you cannot revise, and it may make people believe you. So and but for for the I mean, message for the message I am part, we are also discussing about that whether Discord is our best choice. So there are a lot of message application also based in blockchain. So I can use my ETH address to to to to communicate with the charge. For example, sending me and some new application, we are discussing to use that. Yeah. That's it.

Speaker 1: Chase, do you also had a question about the tech stack. Do you wanna do do you wanna ask further, or did that discussion address that question?

Speaker 4: I feel like she I feel like she she answered about the, the tech stack, but I'm still a little curious about, like, if if you've had issues with bribing or with, like, voter fraud or if you've discussed, like, how to prevent something like that.

Speaker 2: I mean, fraud or scammer?

Speaker 4: Yes. Yes. So, like, you know, for example, if I have, you know, my my SP 2 token on a wallet, obviously, I can't transfer it on chain, but, like, let's say I sell my my private key to somebody and they you know, for them to vote for me or or something like that. Have have you discussed that?

Speaker 2: Oh, Yes. This is another question we also discussed a lot. Okay. So there used to be a scammer in our disc Discord, which pretend to be me and myself to send them a lot of, I mean, scammer information. So there is a principle before you join, we were talk up with you about you. So there are some kind of scammer. For example, if somebody wants to borrow money from you or send you a link, which is about money, don't you do that? And, compared to this kind of scammer, I'm more worried about when the Dow become very large. For example, 10,000 more than 10,000 people. There can be some offline scam which destroy the the cache of CDAO because in in the Dow, we really care about the trust between people. It's a very good vibe. But if someday, one DAO members borrow money from you and then they disappear, it's kind of very bad experience. So and this thing also happened in I mean, like, one month ago so we decide to let you anybody in the in the DAO. And if someone say that you do something for me and I has a project, we we just told them to verify because everything is say that if it is a public, like, it's a guild or project, it should have the public information on our forum or online to check and verify. Verify is very is very important. Do not trust. Even if even it's me. It's like, even I want to do something. You should check if it if there is a public information on our public, foreign yeah. Yeah. That's it. And we also talk about the security of our, like, say, our website and, also our, media our public media. Someone just steal I don't know why. Someone just steal my, Telegram several several days ago and do something bad. Yes. Yes. We we we also deal with that. Yes. You need to be very careful about your Telegram. You'll be a founder of because they may say, oh, I I I and I yes.

Speaker 1: Thank you. Kishar has a question about the multilevel structure. Do you wanna do you wanna ask that?

Speaker 3: Yeah. Yeah. Sure. So I was curious when you mentioned about these different subgroups. Can you highlight on how these groups are formed? And you also mentioned that people move across these groups, and how prevalent is that? Do people move around?

Speaker 2: There is a there is a I think it's a law about how to set a new guild or project in in in in CETA. For example, you are level three contributor. You have proved you have the reputation, then you can apply, and then you can know what's the how much money you need to apply from the treasury. So when the new guild or project is set, then you need to figure out whether it's profitable or nonprofitable. If if it's nonprofitable, it's okay. But you need to tell us why ZEDA need that because they are public goods for ZEDA. For example, the education system and also something like the in real life in real life activities is the public goods, and the Web three library maybe is the public goods. Then you need to say, what's the milestone for that? Then if you if you if you know what's the milestone, then you get a money, and you cover by itself by yourself. The only thing, CITA will do is to check whether you've, made a made with the, milestone, but nobody can I think during that time, nobody can actually to to replace you to decide the girls efforts? It's kind of governed by themselves. And as for the projects, it's it's the same. But projects, usually the projects are profitable. For example, it's also education. It's also courses, but I want to sell it. Maybe I will I will, are, like, $1,000 a week, then you need to return how much to the DAO. The only thing maybe you will be interfere inter intervened by by a CDL's governors that you do something very bad, and it's very bad for the rent. If you if you really do that and I think the mechanics is like that, if some if a sales member reported that your behavior is very, very bad to brand, and when the member reported to governor and the governor check, yes, canceled. I mean I mean, the gals may be canceled or the or or or even the projects can be canceled, and we will have a a public article to say that we we we really punish that so they will never be there again. Yeah. That's it. But but most of them are governed by themselves. We won't interfere. Yeah.

Speaker 3: Okay. Thank you.

Speaker 1: K. Thank you, Emily.

Speaker 2: And I can yes. I can also give you an example about because you also asked how much do people move across these subgroups. It's very common. For example, I used to be the I used to be the ship leader, ship editor of the, translation guild, and then I moved to the writer I mean, writer guild and then to the some projects. And it's very it's very common to see in season one that this guy is here. This is in another guild. It's it's become our tradition or our habits. Nobody want to stay in one place for a very long time, and I don't know why because maybe it's because of me or the call members' tradition is is I'm a true nomads. I moved from one country to another country from but in in. I moved from one guild to another guild. And for other people, it's it's it's the same. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. It's our tradition.

Speaker 1: Thank you so much. I and I hope that, in those answers, we got, some of the war stories that Steve was also asking for. But we're now at time, and so I wanna make sure that we get to our MediGov tradition of thanking our speaker with audible applause. So if you're willing and able, if you could please unmute and get ready to to to express some gratitude for this amazing talk and and this experience that we've heard in five, four, three, two, one.

Speaker 2: Thank you. Thank you so much. Yes. I I just talked with with Hali this afternoon about, and and she also found that very interesting because he's also a provenomass, and and this DAO is for Provenomass. We really believe that Provenomass is the base for the network space because yeah. Yeah. So let's build, and the governance model really matters. Yeah.

Speaker 1: Absolutely. Thank you so much, and and please be in touch.