Speaker 1: Great. So hi, everyone. I'm Lucia Korpash. I'm a data scientist at Medigos. And what I'd like to discuss with you guys today is sort of the second iteration of a project that, I prototyped with a team of three other people at, ETHDenver, earlier this this year in '20 in, February. So the overarching question that we had, myself and and the three people that I met at Ethan at Ethan to sort of try and get something off the ground in just the the week that we had there was, are DAOs working? And, of course, that can mean a lot of things. Like, who are they working for and what way would they be working? What are the goals in which they you you know, towards which we can assess whether or not they're working. But one thing that we wanted to make sure we did towards that very overall question is collect information from a variety of data sources to try and get sort of a holistic picture of, from the governance perspective whether DaaS are working based on not just looking at one data source or another, but trying to integrate a variety of of quantitative and and somewhat qualitative data sources. So what this meant is that we needed to mostly strike out on our own and and get those ourselves. So we decided to look in in three places. One is on chain. So a lot of DAOs choose to implement, some form of governance framework that involves smart contracts. So, basically, they'll set up, oftentimes using a sort of, like, a a client from, say, Aragon or, Dow House or one of the other major sort of framework providers. They'll set up their, interface for interacting with their governance system of submitting proposals and voting on those proposals and changing permissions for different users and that kind of thing, adding and subtracting governance modules. They'll set it up using, you know, a GUI, you know, some kind of, like, website that's provided by, again, say, Aragon. But under the hood, there's at least one smart contract and often a a little network of smart contracts, that are actually doing the you know, running the transactions. And since everything is on chain there, it is accessible by the general public if you know how to look and where to look, both of which are, you know, not necessarily obvious. So I'll talk about collecting data on smart contracts for DAOs that are created by the factory contracts of these overarching sort of DAO frameworks. That's one data source. Second data source is trying to understand how DAOs are communicating about their governance. So, of course, a lot of the discussion might happen on, say, full runs or within Discord. Unfortunately, those are a little bit hard to get access to. But we do what we do have relatively easy access to is Twitter. And for all that, Twitter is a forum that is, you know, generally for the general public, it does seem that a lot of DAOs are talking about, you know, the proposals and the opportunities to vote on changes to their governance or, you know, enact governance, basically, through, say, snapshot votes or on chain votes. And we wanted to track, basically, how frequently DAOs were actually using Twitter to talk about their governance, and try and engage their user base, both, you know, contributors and sort of the general public in the overall process governing the, for example, the protocols that, you know, a lot of people are, you know, invested in how they're being governed. And then finally, most ambitiously and, of course, when we go to got small sample set, we're interested in understanding how DAO contributors feel about being in a DAO. Right? So if you think about a DAO as maybe, for example, something that's great a whole that's greater than this or that's parts or some kind of, like, emergent phenomenon from, you know, individual contributors. Well, you still need to understand, you know, the base element there, which is to the individual contributor and what exactly brings them into a DAO, what they want out of being part of a DAO, and, you know, whether they actually are satisfied with their experience in a DAO. And, of course, you know, that there is a lot on the specific types of goals that they they might have, the specific type of DAO and the reason they joined that DAO. But one but we we came up with a set of questions that we felt were general left to can't capture a wide variety of attitudes or rather attitudes towards governance for a wide variety of DAOs, sort of irrespective of the specific, like, operational structure of the DAO. So those are the three data sources that that we set out to collect at ETHDenver. So while we were there, one of our members deployed a survey and, you know, spent a long time spent a lot of effort and energy distributing it to collect responses. Another member worked out the the Twitter API and collected tweets from all of the from from a from a list of DAO Twitter accounts that we had access to and did a little bit of analysis there. A third member worked on setting up the front and then back end for the website for the the overall project. And then finally, I I set out to collect information from on chain from the DAO factory contract frameworks using a tool called TrueBlocks and an archive node access to an archive node that was generously provided for free from archivenode.io. Whatever it went. So the the first iteration of that, you know, it was done in time crunch. And, unfortunately, after the fact, I you know, we we didn't quite have access to some of the same we didn't have guaranteed access to some of the same the the tools that we used to build that. So after the fact, I wanted to make sure that the the data that we collected would actually be accessible both to, you know, myself as a researcher who's interested in using some of that data, but potentially also others who might have other uses for the data that I I, you know, can't envision. So what I've been working on since then is sort of deploying a b two version of this, which consists of a website with some summary statistics and a little bit of analysis on some of the data that we've collected powered by a database that's actually collecting, storing the information in a way that is not yet, but maybe if there's interest, could be accessible via an API. So with that all said, I think I'll screen share briefly. I will also note that while I'm learning to be a full stack developer through this project, I am not actually one. So I ran into some issues with the actual deployment of the website. So let me, before I forget, put a link in the chat to the website itself. That said, there's no static anything in there. So, unfortunately, it's completely plain text right now, and images aren't rendering. But, I can you know, I'll be trying to fix that soon. And in the meantime, I can screen share a little bit to to show you sort of how I'm envisioning this. That said, I'll the meat of it is mostly in that link. So, if you do wanna check it out on the side, you know, it's there. And hopefully, eventually, I'll get the formatting fixed. Okay. Let me screenshot. Okay. So welcome to DAO, Ken. So we we chose the name sort of tongue in cheek as trying to envision this this project as a mixture or or solution of on and off chain governance data sources reacting to produce a holistic view of DAO governance. So, you know, trying to be a little funny there. But, ultimately, what we wanted to do is, you know, collect these data sources independently and then start trying to, you know, actually find relationships between them. So that's the the intent of this data source, the of of this this overall datasets. And, you know, like I said, at the outset, we're interested in trying to find out, you know, whether DAOs are working at a variety of sort of scopes of, in this case, governance. So the particular kinds of information that we we can get to to understand this are what governance systems DAO founders are actually choosing to implement with what laws. So that would be the the factory contract deployments. In what measurable ways, at least, are DAO members participating in governments governance, and, what's the relationship between that and the chosen systems, and how satisfied are DAO members with their own experiences and with the overall, like, health and success of the of the DAO. So these are the questions that we're interested in answering with the the dataset that we've collected. So currently in the database, we have, again, those few data streams. One of them is the factory contracts. So a factory contract is, again, an address on, in this case, the Ethereum blockchain, that contains a contract, which when certain functions are called on it, will deploy another smart contract or, in fact, a series of smart contracts using a set of parameters that are provided at the time of the function call. So we can if we actually are able to find the addresses of these factory contracts, we can then find every single DAO that was ever deployed using that factory contract. So in that case, of the seven DAOs that seven factory contracts that I was able to find by, you know, digging a little deep in, GitHub repositories and GitBooks and that kind of thing. So far, we've collected information on 2,600 463 DAOs that were created. That said, there's still a little bit of, I guess, sort of data crawling left to do within that just because since the the frameworks are often, you know, somewhat more complicated than just, you know, a single contract deploys a single other contract, you have to sort of dig through the traces of basically, sort of, like, dig through a a whole tree of transactions that happened to track down sort of what the interesting parameters that were set are. So that's still in progress. We have other factory transactions or rather other blockchain transactions from some of those DAOs. So at East Denver, Noam from DeepDao generously provided us with basically just an export of DeepDao's governance address information, which at the time, I think, was only 10% of what they have now. So I'd be curious to get an updated version of that if the API is released. I have to check on that. And so from those, for for those that had a valid Ethereum address, we could basically do the same process of finding all the transactions of that address, and that would allow you to actually see the full on chain history of, for example, proposal generation or voting history or changes to governance parameters if there are any. So that is another really interesting data source that I'm looking forward to sort of digging more into. Currently, for that, we have 15,600 or so transactions across I don't remember off the top of my head, but I think something like 75 to a 100 dApps. So that would allow you to compare both within a framework, what kinds of activity is occurring, and then also between frameworks since that includes definitely Aragon, I think DAO stack, probably DAO house, like, Moloch under the hood, and a few others as well. Maybe Maker. Yeah. Oh, Tribute also, I think. Several Colony. So that's some of the data. On the Twitter side, we found the Twitter accounts of a 105 DAOs. And when I say DAO, I really mean either the DAO governing the, for example, product or protocol or the Twitter handle of the protocol itself. And, typically, it's just the Twitter handle of if it's a protocol, you know, the the protocol itself. So we wouldn't expect to see I mean, we we'd expect to see a lot of tweets that are obviously not governance related since it's just about the you know, obviously, they're communicating about their product as well. But by narrowing the search down to only tweets that were, you know, not not replies, not retweets, and then searching within those for certain keywords related to governance, then we can try and understand sort of in this medium how frequently like, with what proportion what proportion of the tweets are actually about governance, and what kinds of keywords are they what kinds of topics are they discussing when they talk about governance? So of the 105 Twitter accounts, we collected 45,000 or so tweets. I think their their earliest might be from 2015, so several years back. And then finally, the survey responses are all those that were collected at ETHDenver, mostly by, one of my teammates walking around and, the just talking talking to people and having to fill it out while, while talking to them. So, of course, it's a pretty specific sample that was taken there, at East Denver where, you know, people care enough to show up physically to this location together. So take take that with a grain of salt. Okay. I think now I'll talk a little bit about specific data sources. I'll start with sentiment, I think, since that's the most most complete. Oh, sorry. Also, I just realized I'm not seeing the chat. So yeah. If you have any questions, I think it's okay if you just speak up. Okay. So the survey was intended to try and understand, basically, DAO contributor sentiment about their about, like, DAO governance and how they feel sort of the health and success of the DAO is and how they fit into the DAO. So we asked them five questions. One was, do you feel a sense of agency in the decision making process? Two was, do you trust the decision making process? Third, does the DAO effectively accomplish its mission, whatever that may be? Fourth, do you feel wanted and slash or needed by the DAO? And fifth, does contributing to this DAO bring you a sense of fulfillment? And each of these questions was just asked on a one to five scale, all required questions to to submit survey. And then we also average the responses just to obtain an overall sentiment value. Yeah. And in retrospect, we would have also like like to get some other thoughts on whether could you really feel fairly compensated for the time and energy within the DAO. Obviously, that's a that's a big question within DAOs right now with a lot of different approaches to to addressing addressing that. So I'd be really curious to know what other sort of dimensions of an individual's involvement in a DAO, you think are relevant to understanding, I guess, sort of the the health success and overall, how well it's working. The data was working. So let me know in the in the comments. Yeah. How much are they getting paid exactly? Yeah. That's the the most literal interpretation of of fair compensation. So of the 190 responses we got, they were from 171 unique contributors and then about about 112 unique DAOs. Overall, DAO contributor sentiment averaged at a four. So okay. On average then, people are moderately satisfied with their experience. That's sort of roughly what that tells us. The most common overall sentiment value was five, but the distribution spread sort of the full range of value. So, actually, I do have a less very small graphic to show about that. So this is the the average score, from one to five across the five questions that we asked. So we see spikes that sort of, you know, the, you know, one, three, four, and five because the those were the responses that were available. So sometimes people answer, you know, five across the board, four across the board, that kind of thing. But even so, we still see a pretty big spread in, you know, the range of of overall sentiments about their involvement that people had. So we see that the the mean response was four, and it turns out it's also roughly the median. So that means that half of respondents chose a four or below or ended up with a sentiment score of four or below. And I think it was maybe some 17% that were below sort of, you know, less satisfied than satisfied, so at three or below. So that was sort of interesting to see. For all that, you know, often you hear complaints about about down involvement about, you know, operationally, there's a lot of issues and obviously compensation again is a question and all kinds of other issues. But overall of the respondents, the very biased, sample of respondents that we took, people are generally pleased, with how the DAO is meeting their needs and how effective the DAO seems to be from their perspective. To answer Val's question, we've not record any demographic info. No. So, again, this is a survey. We're just sort of, you know, chatting with people in the hallway. Would you like to take our survey? Help us out for a hackathon project. That was sort of the the nature of the survey. So, unfortunately, not time to, try and include some, yeah, very relevant demographic questions, but that would be, definitely useful follow-up information. So aside from that, we also looked at the distribution of sentiment by question just to see if maybe there is any particular sort of aspect of sentiment that we were asking about that respondents felt particularly strongly one way one way or the other about. It turns out not particularly. So here we have, you know, the possible selections from sort of, from from one to five, for each of the five specific questions, and what percentage of respondents chose each of the the five answers. So we see, again, sort of roughly 40% of respondents just choosing fives often, not necessarily across the board, but probably across the board. And only a very small fraction are actually choosing one for any of these sort of question aspects. That said, it seems that maybe a slightly higher proportion of people were not as did not feel wanted and slash or needed by their DAO. And this could make sense depending on the basically, the goal of the DAO. You know, a a protocol or product DAO is maybe has a has a different attitude towards that than a social DAO, for example. So that's where the particular goal of the DAO would definitely come into come into play. Great. So those were our results from from the East Denver survey. We haven't tried to deploy a follow-up survey just because it's a lot of leg work trying to, you know, nag people into filling out a survey as I'm sure many of you know. So I don't think there's any plans right now for a follow-up version of this. But that said, if anyone is interested in deploying something like that, I'd be very curious to see what comes of it. So okay. Next up, I'll talk about tweets. So, again, Twitter is a method by which the DAO's leadership or spokespeople can communicate with both the DAO members and contributors and overall with its sort of broader community of of, for example, protocol users. And I say DAO leadership or spokespeople because, you know, unlike the forums or the, you know, Discord channels or or what have you. It's generally one person who has access to that Twitter account, right, or, like, a small subset of people. So it's only a particular sort of kind of governance, discussion that can happen sort of through Twitter, at least, from from the DAO, emitted by the DAO, I guess. But that said, we're interested in how much the sort of this DAO Twitter handle was communicating about topics related to governance that, you know, would involve actual DAO contributors to engage with the governance process. So what we did was search the the tokenized text of each tweet that we had access to for keywords related to voting, related to proposals, related to decision making, and then also related to budgeting, as well as the words, governance and forum individually, since, again, oftentimes, governance discussions happen on, say, like, a discourse forum. So using the the Twitter API, we collected, again, some 45,000 or so tweets, from a 105,000 a 105 devs, and only used those accounts for which we had access to at least a 100 tweets. And, again, only considering sort of, you know I I was calling them first order tweets. I don't know if it's an official term of Urband, but, you know, not retweets, not replies. Just, first author tweets. And then of those, we identified some 5,000 of those as related to governance. So what that turns out to be per DAO is that on average, some 11% of tweets emitted by the DAO are about governance, which is actually, in some cases, somewhat higher than I was expecting. Median is also around around nine, and the max is about is about 60. So in some cases, you know, it's a lot of discussion happening, about, for example, proposals and decision making. And of those particular topics that we were interested in, we found that the most commonly appearing topics from the keywords, which, by the way, were chosen from first just doing a basically, like, again, overall, tokenizing the text to just splitting it up into individual words and then, you know, listing the most common words in descending order and just kinda look you through that to see what kinds of words we should look out for versus which ones, you know, might end up casting too wide a net. So the most most common topic where of the governance related tweets, some 43% of them involved voting. So either, from from what, you know, sample look through the text, often calls to vote on a recent proposal, or describing the outcome of a vote on on such a proposal, that kind of thing. So similarly, proposed proposal, etcetera, appeared in about 25% of the governance related tweets. Interestingly, the word governance itself is often used as well. So maybe in conjunction with, propose, or otherwise discussing sort of, new directions in, a DAO's a DAO's governance. But I found that kind of interesting. Yeah, Josh. So in this case, it is literally word frequency. So each tweet is, again, just kind of, like, tokenized. So just just split into individual words and then just sort of, you know, yes, no. Does the tweet contain, in this case, each of these words? So if it contained any of these words, we tag we just flagged it as being related to the topic, voting, any of these words, topic proposal, etcetera.

Speaker 2: Can you give a few examples of tweets? So are these discussing tweet business, or, they're, like, announcing results, or how much of these are automated and so on?

Speaker 1: Let me

Speaker 3: just see a

Speaker 2: couple I don't

Speaker 1: I don't actually know how to how to know if they're they're automated, for example. That's a good question, actually. Yeah. It's the from the again, you know, can't look through all of them, but from the the sampling error I did, it seems they're often saying, like, vote here on proposal number, etcetera, such and such, and then they link a URL to, you know, a snapshot for, post or, you know, discuss on our forum and then link to the forum, that kind of thing.

Speaker 3: It might be interesting to know how often there are links. I I'm not sure if that's something that's easy to do. But the

Speaker 1: Yeah. I I did actually pull up that information too. So maybe now's a good time to do a little screen sharing of the or screen shotting of the the deposit the database itself. So this is the information we could actually collect via the Twitter API. So for individual tweets, we have when it was created, the text, likes, replies, retweets, you know, when when these were last updated because, obviously, these are, you know, dynamic numbers. URLs. So, yeah, like you said, the the list of URLs that are attached to the tweet somehow. And then from the the text, the clean version of the text, we research for the governance topics. And then for the Twitter accounts themselves, one thing we we did a preliminary analysis of at East Denver, that I haven't had time to to do sort of more lately since then. But, basically, whether DAO governance tweeting relates to sort of what state what sort of life stage the DAO is at, I guess. So like, you know, does it increase as the the DAO sort of becomes more mature? Is it, you know, mostly in the beginning and then sort of tapering out? That kind of thing. And whether it scales at all with the the DAO size itself. So sort of taking followers count as a proxy for, I guess, the scope of at the very least, the scope of influence of the DAOs, not necessarily its its official membership, whether different scales of DAOs need different kinds of governance communication or at least tend to show different kinds of governance communication. So those are some of the questions that, we're interested in understanding, the answers to. And, while I don't yet have the answers to them, I think some of this dataset, could sort of go in that direction. Yeah. So, you know, for example, for governance and propose, we see, this one actually not might not be that quite as relevant. So a little bit of data cleaning to do probably still. So chatting about, you know, upcoming meetings that people might be able to join discussing governance, for example, or a particular proposal on the, you know, whatever the GIP, EIP, whatever the whatever the equivalent, proposal system is for protocol, that kind of thing. Cool. So that's, that data source. And then finally, the biggest and, unfortunately, Harry's data source, which is the on chain data. So start with the factory, I guess. So frameworks like the like Aragon, Dow House, Dow Stack, Open Loss Tribute, again, have a user facing, like, website that is what people actually use to interact with all the smart contracts. But under the hood, there's, you know, not even just this one smart contract or factory contract that we found, but sort of a whole network of factory contracts to then deploy a network of, you know, DAO instance government smart contracts. So it can be a little tricky be a little bit tricky to track down sort of across all those transactions where the relevant, you know, parameter settings are happening, for example. So here we see, for for these first four, it we have a series of Aragon factory contracts starting from, I wanna say, maybe, like, 2018, 2019, pretty early on, which altogether have deployed, you know, probably at least a couple thousand contracts. This number is actually, like, 200, and for some reason, I've had trouble getting versions of it. So now there's that. But what this means is that, for each of these smart contracts, transaction histories, we can look for all instances of contracts that were deployed by a transaction, so or created as a result of a transaction. And then we can also look at, you know, what function was being called at the time of the transaction and what were the function inputs when that when the function was called. So that lets us see, for example, knowing that the DAO creation functions for version 0.6 of the Aragon factory, our new instance or new bear instance, we could then look for all transactions that, you know, use that function call, find all the contracts that were deployed by it, and then both look at the initialization parameters for that. And also, if we're interested, sort of follow-up on the actual transactional history of those contracts to find out how whether what kind of relationship there is between the parameters that were set about, for example, voting duration or voting quorum or, you know, what number of people actually have control over a treasury, for example, what the distribution initial distribution of tokens is, those kinds of questions, and see how that relates to, you know, governance activity in terms of, like, how many unique addresses, for example, are actually involved in creating proposals or voting on proposals, how frequently a proposal is actually being put forth, all kinds of questions like that. That would be really interesting to understand. That the caveat, I just wanna make a side note here that, obviously, this is something a lot of other people are interested in too. And there are existing you know, aggregators such as DeepDow, portum.info, probably more than I don't remember off the top of my head, that are doing a pretty good job of some of this. So I'm not trying to replicate their work. And, in fact, in in in the the prototype version of this, we did use both DeepDavs and, boredom.info's well, DeepDavs some of DeepDavs data and boredom.info's API, to look at, off chain voting, so, like, snapshot voting. I haven't integrated that back into this version since, again, you know, boardroom.info API is publicly as accessible on its own. So I didn't want to just, you know, be replicating their database. That said, to to my knowledge, this kind of sort of repository or at least ability to look at specifically within a factory and between or sorry. Within a framework and between frameworks, the actual parameter settings and voting and otherwise, like, sort of governance activity history across DAOs by by framework is not something that's sort of straightforward to do right now. Again, the data is all there because it's publicly available on the blockchain, but I'm trying to sort of collect it in a way that makes it usable, basically, for answering questions about specific oh, I I guess more generally governance structures that are being used right now. Just get more transparency on, like, sure, you can create a DAO using this, but what is it people are actually doing? And at least for the DAO is that, you know, there's any kind of activity for it because I I I did notice that oftentimes, you know, a DAO will be deployed and then there's no transaction history after that. So for those that, you know, anyone actually used afterwards, how does that relate to how how do the just the, basically, governance surface parameter settings relate to the kinds of governance activity that can then that can then occur through the DAO.

Speaker 4: Fantastic. We've got a a bunch of thoughts here. See, Val, do you wanna do you wanna give voice to your to your question?

Speaker 5: I think Lucia answered my question.

Speaker 4: Okay. Sorry.

Speaker 5: Yeah. No worries.

Speaker 1: Thank you, Alicia. Totally realized. Yeah. I guess I'm a little bit overtime here. So I've answered the gist of it. Unfortunately, still in the the wrangling phase, I guess, of of trying to actually get these the contract, you know, parameter settings out of this. But it's there, and I can do it. She's not done it.

Speaker 4: Okay. Sorry sorry for the for the mistake. Let's see. Josh, do you wanna got a bunch of things in here.

Speaker 6: Yeah. Couple of different questions. Mhmm. First small question is just so what's the what's preventing us from because Aragon has, you know, like, what, a thousand or a couple thousand. So DAOs, how many of them are It'd be really nice to just have a classification of, like, which ones are active based on the transaction history. Yeah. I don't know if that's possible.

Speaker 1: Yeah. That's that was that's sort of my first order of business here that currently running on a computer is a a really long script that's basically not even looking at the transactions themselves, but looking at so it's a true backing up a bit. I'm using TrueBlocks, which has an index of basically, like, address appearances across the entire blockchain. So there's sort of two steps to then accessing the transaction history. One is to just sort of, like, check the index that they that they've created for where those addresses appear, and then the second step is actually, you know, finding every transaction on the blockchain. So the first step is you know, takes less time than the second step. So I've been doing the first step of just, you know, checking how many appearances a I e, how many transactions each address has. So that's being populated right now.

Speaker 6: That's awesome. Yeah. Second question was, I guess, more, again, on the concrete side, but the like, we have these things for, like, Aragon B, you know, b whatever. Actually, they're aren't they on, like, d three now? So this is relatively old. Right? These these are actually contracts. The second question is, like, why is it possible to get, like, no?

Speaker 1: Yes. So two two for the two questions. The first one, it turns out I don't know what sort of their overall framework, like, version numbering is at, but at least version 0.8 seems to still be live. Like, it's still deploying contracts.

Speaker 6: Okay. So they just, like, have a different version system then?

Speaker 1: Yeah. Version zero point eight point one, for some reason, seems to have been abandoned, like, two hundred days ago. I don't know why. But this one was deploying contracts as of at least, like, a week ago.

Speaker 6: Interesting. Interesting. Interesting.

Speaker 1: The second question was about what was the second question? Sorry.

Speaker 6: No safe.

Speaker 1: Oh, yes. So for that, there's two approaches to that. One would be sort of looking through the parameters that were set at the time of instantiation or, you know, shortly after the fact to try and find addresses that might be safes or, like, you know, treasury user, like, knows a safe contract specifically. So that's that's doable, I think. But the second probably easier one to actually rapidly get some interesting information is just taking DeepDive's API if it's accessible. Again, have to follow-up on that. And using their listing of DOW governance addresses and treasuries, to then, you know, link the two. So that would be, step two here.

Speaker 6: Okay. So we can't just get all the notes to save some parts from me?

Speaker 1: I don't think I mean, I don't think notes is safe as a deployment contract, but I should know. I would have to look.

Speaker 3: I feel like it must because there's a no code interface for deploying a NOSA safe. So Yeah. I mean I'll

Speaker 1: have to I'll have to dig it. Yeah. Go dig it. A a

Speaker 3: trick to get that data would probably be to just go, like, look at the actual deployment, the no code API. Just, like, go to their app and Yeah. You know, in the in the worst case, you could actually deploy one and then go trace backwards from it.

Speaker 1: But it

Speaker 3: should be able to just find any notes that's safe and Thank you. Look at how it was created. Yes.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Good good point. And, yeah, I can dig those down to them because that would definitely be a useful useful source to have as well. Any other questions or thoughts? Yeah. I see Lucas.

Speaker 4: See, Jack had had one in the chat and then

Speaker 7: Lucas. Yeah. My my question was just an informational question. You mess you mentioned that DeepDow provided an API and information about activity that DAOs were taking. I think you mentioned also another potential source that was similar to that. Okay. Got it. Thanks,

Speaker 1: info. Yeah. They are also an interface, I think, for aggregating for for both for a DAO itself to, like, do some of its, like, off chain governance and also then to, you know, have that information be easily accessible to others.

Speaker 7: Awesome. Thanks.

Speaker 8: K. Hi, Lucia. Thank you very much for your presentation and for all the work. My question is about the actual data. I understand that the data the database is being populated right now, so it's not done. The two questions about that. Once it's populated and once you you finished gathering the data, are you going to to release the data for for for people to analyze? This is one question. Mhmm. And and oh, so that would be great. And second second second question is, do you have is it possible right now at this point to release, like, a a schema of the database or or or the ontology of the database to to to be able to to see, you know, what kind of entities are there actually or will be there eventually in the in the in the database.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Mhmm. Yeah. So I mean yeah. I'm a member of Medigov. I think Medigov believes pretty strongly in, you know, the commons and public good and all that kind of thing. So, you know, I'd like to make this available not just for myself, but also to others in a way that actually is useful and not just, you know, opaque or just the summary statistics. So given admittedly some time constraints of some of my other, the commitments here, I would like to to make this database once it's populated, a, sort of auto updating, with sort of like a once a week kind of frequency, and b, accessible via an API at least for some of the less sensitive data. So I don't think I would make, for example, individual survey responses accessible, But for some of for the Twitter information at least or the blockchain information, I mean, that's all already publicly accessible. I'd just be sort of putting it into a new format. So yeah. If I find the time to do so, which I hope I do at least for at least for a portion of it, it's but at least for the the on chain portion of it, I think. Mhmm. Then there'll be a, you know, a documented API for

Speaker 8: it. And do you do you think that the the structure of the database is stable enough to to be able to for you to be able to to to, like, generate, like, a scheme of the of the of the database to to be able, you know, to to just look at the data and see how at the schema and see, you know, what kind of entities are there or will be there eventually.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I mean, it should be should be pretty pretty close. All these tables here that start with blockchain are

Speaker 8: Yeah. Okay.

Speaker 1: Columns are pretty much set, I think. So yeah. But if you if you want that, I can, you know, just send that to you separately for now. But or try and update the the database at least with sorry. The the website with that.

Speaker 8: Thank you

Speaker 1: so much. Mhmm. And, Seth?

Speaker 4: Let's see. Sean?

Speaker 9: Yeah. Let's see. This is really interesting stuff. So we just finished our seasonal survey as well. And although our dataset's much smaller, we had about, I think, 50 respondents of about a 100 participants, and we had a whole lot more questions. A lot of your questions are echoing, a lot of the same types of things that we asked asked. So I think it's interesting to take your data and compare that and say, hey, are we doing better or worse? Right? Or our metrics showing that better or worse compared to the dataset that you've got at east at at East Denver. The other piece I've started thinking about is, gosh, if you publish this and we're able to almost come up with the standard questions that everybody asked, that comparison across many different dials would be exciting because as it is right now, there's no one to one comparison. It's kinda loosely some of the same questions. But, man, could you imagine that if everybody was asking the same questions? So that's my own comment. Thanks.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I mean, seems like standardization is also a, you know, a key issue here. So

Speaker 6: If we could standardize that, that would be really nice. Have Have a little working group for this. Yep. Actually, I think this is literally something Andy Hall just said he was really interested in. I think that was about engagement metrics. But, obviously, like, you need to standardize the inputs of these engagement metrics to some degree and having a common survey. Like, the common survey or common DAO survey or something like that could be really useful. Yeah. Maybe we could try to make some progress on this.

Speaker 4: Val, you had another comment. Do you wanna give voice to that? Or is it

Speaker 5: Sure. Well, just that I would, you know, be super interested in the demographic information on the survey respondents for some of those questions around agency and, you know, feeling needed or feeling like you had your voice heard. And, yeah, my work revolves predominantly around marginalized communities. So, you know, being a a DAO contributor myself, like, I I feel like I intuitively can see stuff happening in DAO discords, but a survey would be a really cool way to bring to light some of perhaps the ways that DAOs could do better or worse at, like, you know, making sure that people across the board of a diverse community get heard and and feel part of it. So if that was in the pipeline, I would be super interested in getting involved and helping either, you know, talk to people or construct those surveys or anything like that.

Speaker 1: Yeah. No. Thanks. I'm I'm glad to hear it. And, I guess we might follow-up with you on that in that case. Again, this is one of my my few projects for for MediCo. So, unfortunately, I can't follow every interesting trend. But

Speaker 5: Totally.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Thank you. I

Speaker 3: wanna tack on to that that, I think at least on the the ethnographic front with some of the the Discord bot project and also some other conversations, we've encountered a lot of people who do actually feel, like, underrepresented in these communities. And so, you know, it's sort of complementary to the the surveys and the data collection. But, I would I would hazard a guess that, actually, this is a really, really important direction. You know, if people are are sort of putting DAOs forth as a kind of, you know, future of work or or future way of organizing, you know, as communities of various scales, I'm of the opinion that some of these things should be handled as early as possible because trying to sort of back figure this kind of cultural and or values thing as things grow will get will be really, really hard, and it'll be a lot easier if the problem is identified, substantiated, and sort of hopefully meaningfully addressed while the organizations are relatively small and where they're, like, not necessarily fulfilling any critical functions.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Thanks, Lee.

Speaker 3: Yeah. Really just saying, Val, I think that's really important, and it's a good idea.

Speaker 4: Seth has one last technical question.

Speaker 1: Maybe About the

Speaker 8: This is

Speaker 2: really maybe more of a core like a medical business question than a presentation question. But if we're if there's no others, then

Speaker 1: Yeah. Yeah. So right now, since, I was doing this sort of, like, I was considering this sort of, like, a half Medigov half, just me on my own sort of projects and some was, you know, some of it a lot of it was a sort of full stack development learning work that, you know, Medigov did not necessarily hire before. So as part of that, I went and provisioned my own, DigitalOcean server, which, you know, I'm paying a small amount a month for, basically. I think my understanding is that, yeah, Medigot exactly has a DigitalOcean account, so maybe it's possible to transfer that pretty pretty, smoothly. But, yeah, right now, the database does live in an actual, like, you know, managed database on a server somewhere.

Speaker 2: Well, I've got a virtualization machine. So if you wanna spin up a a a server with for nothing, then I'd be happy to help.

Speaker 1: My team

Speaker 4: is to have, like, a tree shaped collection of Raspberry Pis that are all running our services and that we can all, like, periodically, like, bow in front of or something.

Speaker 6: Or let's fork Ethereum, all start running our own nodes and host this data on chain. Kabam.

Speaker 4: There's so many possibilities, but we'll end up with DigitalOcean.

Speaker 1: And, Josh, by the way, technically, I haven't paid anything yet because they gave you, like, a $300 when you started up. So I wanted to do that trial version first.

Speaker 6: Makes sense.

Speaker 4: Alright. Well, it's time for very, very well earned applause. So please on three, unmute and show your appreciation. 321. This is awesome.

Speaker 6: This is you. It's amazing.