Speaker 1: Cool. So, hello, and welcome, everybody. Today is another Medigov seminar. Today is a different format than normal, where Medigov is gonna be going to dWebCamp next year sorry. Next year. Next week. And we're gonna be doing a bunch of different activities there, and we thought it would be nice to spend an hour with the community just chatting about things that we're gonna be doing, things that we'd like to do, things that we might think about. And we've I have Natalia Dachshund with us today, who is gonna be doing a bunch of activities at DWeb, and is thinking a lot about the place of Medigov at DWeb and just Medigov in general. So we wanted to invite her to come and talk about, some of the things that she's thinking about before coming to DWeb. I might share a little bit about some of the stuff that I'm organizing. Eugene is also organizing some activities around impact and funding. And I think we have some other people here who are going. So it's gonna be kind of a very just, like, loose format chance for us to get together and talk about what we wanna do at DWeb, what our dreams, hopes, wishes are, and then we'll share it out with the community afterwards and, yeah, see how that feeds into the DWeb activity next week. So

Speaker 2: let

Speaker 1: me just go ahead and pass it over to Natalia. Natalia has been doing some work with us around a forthcoming mega journal and also kind of thinking about how to, like, bring together all of the really interesting and eclectic work that's happening in this organization and in this community. And I wanna just hear from her a little bit about what she's excited about for DWeb and what she's thinking and, you know, where her head is at with that. So, Natalia.

Speaker 3: Yeah. I'm really excited. It took me some time to wrap my head around what DWeb could be. I've never gone. And I was like, oh, this, like, group of technologists meeting three hours north of San Francisco. I don't understand. Then I thought, oh, it's this convergence in a real space that is the most earthy real life place you can think of, which is in the woods with, like, soil and a really cool place to see what what happens to, like, have experiments of what is the real thing, what feels good there, what feels bad there, what feels like a distraction, what feels like the point. And so I'm really excited to just, like, try everything and, like, bring various things and just see how people interact with it. Or it's a place where people are committed to being with each other, but there's still gonna be so much to do and so many people to talk to that people will be distracted from your thing with a different thing, but not from, like, some random Twitter thing probably. So that's really exciting. I'm excited to put out a version of Medigov issue negative one negative one because it might be in the completely wrong direction. It might be we might learn that that's absolutely not what we wanna be doing, But it would be, like, really, really informative to be in person and to see how people are engaging with the work, how people are engaging with the pieces. It'll be the first time some of the people on our own team. What would be the good, like, social goods to get back for all of the, you know, creative and, like, high skill work that goes into making a journal. So we've like, it kind of and and the vaccine's been thinking about what would be good, and then just having a place to, like, actually test some of these theories is just, like, amazing.

Speaker 1: Natalia, can you say a little more about what kind of spurred the the journal along in the first place?

Speaker 3: Oh, yeah. There were several, sad things for people. One was, homeless pieces. Pieces that were the wrong shape even though they were really good and everybody knew they were really good. Pieces that were way too long, pieces that were way too short, pieces that were way too interdisciplinary, or pieces that were way too, from the heart personal fiction poetics. So a lot of these pieces end up homeless, and there would be, like, houses where they could be, but then they would all be separated from each other. You know, it would be if you wrote a big piece about, like, the economics of policing. You know, a politics journal could accept it or an economics journal could accept it if it's the exact correct shape. But then those pieces get separated and, like, put into a house style for whatever the house is that accepted them. And then what also happens is the judgment is at the mercy of usually one or two editors who are in charge. And it's usually not even if it's good or not. It's what what they don't have at that moment or what they think they need at that moment. So if they've published too many pieces on one topic already, and too many could be, like, three within three months. Like, three pieces on the same topic within three months could be considered too many. And then your piece just never gets over certain arbitrary lines to get published. So we were excited to house the homeless pieces. We were excited to be a house where we can have our own house style, keep our stuff together, decide what should be together, have our own arbitrary or nonarbitrary standards that are different from other arbitrary standards. So we thought that was important and that medi.gov has the talent and capacity to run a shop like that. The other thing is usually usually, editors and technologists are separated. So the capacity to edit very hard pieces is also a reason pieces get rejected a lot of the time where if there's nobody on staff to check if what you're writing is reasonably correct or if the editor thinks it sounds right, but they're not sure and they can't ask anybody about it, it's going to get rejected for that reason also or be in purgatory for, you know, eight months where they talk to their people to see if it could be fixed up. But, actually, there is no people. It's just one person and not an expert. They could just poke and be like, hey. Is this, like, within reason? I don't wanna embarrass myself by publishing something utterly unreasonable. So media is is generally a hard landscape where many talents are needed to do a really, really solid job. And so mega gov being a place where there is already a community of many talents coming together and many people sharing, writing with each other already, creating a more formal, more external artifact to showcase that felt felt like it was important.

Speaker 1: Do you have any, like, ideas or senses for the kinds of artifacts that might come out of DWeb with this year? I think you and I had talked maybe a little bit about making some zines or making a bunch of small, like, practical use books. And I'd also love to just hear more about this this concept of the negative one as, like, the next thing that's getting published. I really like that as, like, a starting premise.

Speaker 3: Yeah. Yeah. So I plan to so creating a so for the Medigap journal, for the final print issue, I imagine a basically, a small book. The average size of a submission I've been getting is about 20 pages. That doesn't mean that if you have a one page fun thing, I won't publish it. It just means the current average is pretty high. And so I've been looking into how do you make a book. And it's not hard from a complexity level. It's just hard from a brute force. There's a lot to do level. But I plan for the mega dev journal, the print version to be like like a like a some kind of a shaped book with some amount of heft to it. For the webcam, I plan to I've asked some people if I could print their articles, cut it off so the full article isn't released yet, you know, put some awesome drawings on it, and, like, create, like, a little world for each piece, and just see how people engage with the pieces. Because my ultimate goal for the journal is for however many people we can get to be reading it front to back. If we have a 100 people who have all read all issues of the medical journal, that's a really big deal because that doesn't really happen these days anymore in communities. Even staffs of their own magazines often don't read the own magazine from front to back. So even getting getting the content that is compelling enough that people keep reading it. And I'm somebody who likes to watch people read things. I would just sit there and just watch a you you you can just know if a person's reading it by just sitting there seeing if they're reading it in person. Because sometimes you hand someone a packet of papers just stapled together, and they just sit in the corner for half an hour, and it's very noticeable that what you've just handed them is good. It's like telling somebody a joke, and if they laugh back immediately, you know, it's a good joke. But if I tell you if if they tell you, ah, yes. That was a good joke. You know, it was not a good joke.

Speaker 1: It reminded me a little I got this book recently. It's called Rain by David Horowitz, and it's 64 different ways of describing rain and the Georgian language, and some of them are really, really interesting. And the reason I'm bringing it up is because what was really interesting about this book was I would walk around the city just holding it, like, opening to a page, like, on a rainy day and just, like, reading some of these words and then, like, feeling like I was kind of casting spells, rain spells. It was just very, like magic is not the right word, but it it felt very connected somehow with the environment. And I love these kinds of books that have this kind of experience where you feel connected to the environment through the engagement with it. I'd love to think with you a little more and maybe others also, others are welcome to join in on this conversation. Like, in terms of engagement, like, do you have ideas or thoughts or past experiences with people engaging with the things that you've published and what those kinds of things look like? Maybe I can add a little bit more to that in the sense that one of the things that we're doing at the web camp this year is something called migration station, where we're gonna have people come and tell stories of mementos that are meaningful to them in relationship to their migrations. And they're gonna document them, archive them, make audio recordings, tell stories about them. And we might have some, like, listening sessions or even reading sessions where we, like, transcribe them into a bunch of different languages and people can read them in their own languages. And I think there's something really like, one of my favorite events at DWeb two years ago was something that my Sutton organized where she they had a reading circle, and everyone sat and read an excerpt from a book that they really liked. And it was something really nice about just listening to people read, and around. And I'm curious, like, as, like, one kind of engagement style that people might have within a text, and I'm wondering, how you think people might relate to some some of the kind of things that you are

Speaker 2: seeing in this context.

Speaker 3: Yeah. That's a really good idea, and I I think that's gonna be I think your project's gonna be really awesome, and I'm really stoked for it. I'm really stoked to go to the migration station. Yeah. The writing stuff is odd. It would usually be people reading something at some point, haphazardly, over the day, and then at some point at night realizing they have read the similar thing and then have some sort of a late night conversation about it that's quasi intense or up up to very intense, where certain kinds of writing gets people to have certain kinds of conversation, which is really unpredictable. The writing I've made, I have never been able to predict what it would then do. It's one of, like, the hazards of being a so called intellectual writer where you put an idea out into the world, and then people do really unpredictable things with it and roll with it. And then the question of how to harness that energy into something that goes back to you is kind of the experiment I wanna run, where most publishers actually never get to run that experiment. They sort of, like, publish, and then they have subscribers. And even in, like, before Internet, it'd be like, how many people are paying to have this delivered? But they wouldn't have things like reading groups for a magazine. Like, they would have book clubs for books or, like, a magazine would promote a book club. But, like, a book club for the actual magazine is less common. So that's one thing I would want to check out. Having a submissions submissions for homeless pieces also might be a fun station just to have just to see collect what other people consider homeless pieces or, like, very not not well read pieces that are underrated.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I That's exciting. There's, like, a couple ways we can maybe go here. One is I'm thinking that Eugene is organizing planning to organize a reading group around some of Octavia Butler's writing, and it may be interesting to sort of hear about Eugene's experience with reading groups and maybe see as a bonus if he can find a way of tying it into the Impact Island programming that he's doing. I know that's a bit of a conceptual ask. And then I also would love I saw that Brian here had mentioned that he's picked a migration object. And so maybe maybe let's go, Brian, and then if you're interested in talking about the objects you're bringing. And then, Eugene, I can put you second so you can have a little more time to kind of think about whether or not that kind of conceptual coupling is navigable.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Happy to. I'll be real I'll be pretty quick. Yeah. I I have a a PCB that my grandfather made that's, like, hand etched and

Speaker 1: Do you have it with you?

Speaker 2: You know? Hold on. Give me give me two I'll give it, like, ten seconds.

Speaker 1: Cool.

Speaker 2: Alright. Cool. No. It's this just, like, real simple little printed circuit board. And I feel like so much of I guess the way I interpreted it was kind of a migration into more digital spaces and more technological spaces. And I think my grandfather really taught me kinda gave me the tools to start on that journey. So I sort of viewed it as, like, his this was from when he was in electronic school in the Navy. So it was part of his journey into that, like, technical space. And then later, I learned a lot from him and got to, you know, do that a little more. So that that was kind of the migration that I chose to focus on with that object.

Speaker 1: I'd love to ask you a follow-up question. I mean, I'm curious that kind of way of describing the transition into the digital or that migration into the digital is is really interesting. And I think it you know, this is the kind of thing that's gonna be kind of perpetually surprising and interesting to me is to hear how people are conceptualizing and thinking about, migration at camp. I'd love to hear you talk a little bit more about that because one thing that has come up in some of our previous discussions over the last couple of years is what the relationship between, the physical and the digital is with some of the work, and the mission that Medigap is is, working towards, and maybe hearing a little bit about your thinking around that in the context of your object might kind of open up some some space to think about that a little more.

Speaker 2: Yeah. I mean, my grandfather grew up on, like, you know, on a farm in Texas with no running water and and no electricity and, you know, learned to drive a car when he was 13 that didn't have any breaks and just, like, such a different world that I can't even imagine what that's like. So it just feels like a whole another planet to me. But, you know, within his lifetime, he, you know, he got to the point where, like, this was a thing that he was doing. And that's just, like, that level of, like, change and adaptation to the world and, like, growing into the world as you encounter different things is something I really admire about him. And I think it's I I can only hope to adapt to the the changes going forward, but so much of I think, like, specifically, the path, like, into technology, just seeing how much more of our world is connected through technology and and seeing that as a place where I've often put my attention to look for opportunities to adapt to the world somewhat as a result of a continuation of of him and and my dad as well. So

Speaker 1: Yeah. It's it's really interesting. I think there's also, I don't remember who is organizing it, but if my memory serves me correctly, there's gonna be quite a few activities at DWeb happening next week where they're going to be focusing on the kind of relationship between decentralized technology and agriculture and farmers. And it's actually a really interesting field from the little bit that I was told about it. There's a lot of cooperative movements happening in that context. There this group of people are incredibly technologically savvy, and they are able to, like, very, very precisely account for how their crops will develop over time and when they'll be ready to harvest. And there's also quite a fair bit of, from what I understand, funding, from different agencies towards this, area. So I think there's something potentially very interesting about that kind of that I don't know quite how to phrase it, but I'm gonna be watching that area of camp, right, quite a bit because I think it's it's gonna be one of those areas that's really interesting in the context of DWeb because I think some of these concepts can sometimes feel quite abstract, quite distant. And, you know, when we start to think about agriculture and the food that we're consuming, I think the kinds of impacts and the the kind of the the affordances of decentralized technology really come into a lot more clarity and focus. Maybe that's an interesting way to kind of pass over to Eugene to talk a little bit about the impact island programming. And, also, maybe that's a good kind of framing question. Like, you know, I'm curious to hear a little, Eugene, if you wanna take this path in the conversation. What are some of the kinds of things that you're interested in kind of understanding, learning, connecting into with this community of technologists, dreamers, artists, policymakers working around decentralized and distributed technology in relationship to the topic that is kind of centering your your programming?

Speaker 4: Sure. So the initial framing of the topic that I had brought up with Wendy and my earlier this year was much more focused on free and open source software, open digital infrastructure, kind of digital public goods in those contexts. And what, excuse me, what funding and sustainability look like for those projects. And, pretty much the and now this this track is being called Impact Island, and there will be a specific portion of it that is dedicated exclusively to the direct topic of, you know, how do we measure the impact of such things and what does that mean both from the funder perspective as well as from a project's perspective and just the role of things like theories of change and clarifying the desired impact and, you know, quantifying or not quantifying necessarily, but being more nuanced and specific between, you know, when do we really mean outputs versus outcomes versus eventual impact and recognizing that some coral and generally elusive nature of what impact is. So, you know, to the question that you were just asking, Sent, I think at the end of the day, there's a couple of things that I would love to see emerge from this track. One of them is just having more honest conversations, with a very, you know, wide ranging group of folks in terms of backgrounds and expertise on, you know, you wanna build a public good, what does that actually mean and look like from a funding perspective, from a sustainability perspective? You know, we're gonna have a session on, you know, should you be a nonprofit or a different legal entity and just had to think through some of the logistical realities of building something that is, you know, whether it's open source or just freely available. You know, how do you actually grow and sustain these kinds of projects, and what are the kind of models and standards that are already out there for people who are doing that now. And so it'll be great that there's both, you know, people building such tools, people researching open digital infrastructure funders, people who are seeking grants. So I really appreciate kind of the mix of folks who will be at the proverbial table when we're there. You know, another aspect is we're going to kind of flip the usual script. Right? A lot of the time, most funding conversations go in the form of a funder puts out a call or bill or just says that they have something available, and then people who are interested in applying apply, and kind of the matchmaking happens at the level of the application and whether or not it's resonated with the leader. And so the thing we're trying to invert there and if I'm remembering correctly, this is thanks to Caitlin forgetting her last name, but from the Filecoin Foundation on the on the grant giving side there, she kind of proposed this reverse funder fix so we could let funders talk to what is the kind of change they wanna see in the world, and then we can have kind of open discussions and try to share that out a little more widely to think about how projects are working in specific types of in the context of public goods broadly, how they can, you know, potentially build more connection points between themselves and those who have capital and, you know, a lot of the time, don't actually know how to best deploy it in the context of their desired mission or stated mission. And so the four kind of blocks between Thursday and Friday that we'll be taking place at Impact Island, Thursday, the first portion will be all about, you know, the the type sustainability, what are sort of the the, quote, unquote, business models that work. And I'm just putting that in quotes because, right, this is for public good. It's not to just, like, go find a service to sell. And so, yeah, just what does sustainability mean? Thursday afternoon is going to be from the funders' perspective. So we'll be hearing from some retrospectives from funders as well as doing that reverse funder pitch and kinda having a a conversation around that. Friday is going to start with impact and community. So we're going to discuss the topic of impact measurement, and we'll hear from three different groups building different tools or data sets to help better explore and understand the question of the impact measurement over time. And, you know, we very much wanna have the discussion of this shouldn't just be framed for the how do you justify to a funder that they spent their money well. Right? But the actual goal of more clearly elucidating impact is for all parties involved to understand more deeply what is the actual change we wanna see in the world over ten, twenty, however many years, and how do we know that it's happened. And, right, that is if done correctly, it is meant to benefit all parties, not just funding issued for a funder. And then the last session on Friday will be around open digital infrastructure and just highlighting some projects and research in that direction. So that's kind of an overview of the impact discussion. And if you want me to an attempt to segue back to the reading group, I am happy to take on that challenge, but I will pause in case there's anything else on that side that's of interest.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I mean, I would love to see how you wanna segue into that. And I would also like to kind of, like, double click on that question that I initially started with again of, like, why this conversation at DWeb? Like, what is unique about this context, that you think is going to, provide insights or perspectives that or affordances kind of like we were talking about in the agricultural context, that wouldn't be possible otherwise. So if you can kind of tie together those three things, that would be really quite the feat.

Speaker 4: Sure. So, I mean, starting with the latter, you know, why why at DWeb, and why was I excited that Wendy and mine and and some others in the DWeb and the Internet Archive community got excited about this is because I think just DWeb, right, this is going to be my first time. So I'm not pretending to know from experience or from everything I've heard in talking to folks who have been going since the the beginnings of DWeb, it does truly seem to just be a wonderful confluence of, you know, sort of bigger, more established organizations that are more, quote, unquote, traditional all the way through individual hackers, individual researchers, activists, builders, doers. It it's just a great mix of folks. And given that this isn't, you know, a 10,000 person behemoth conference, but it's a, you know, a bunch of people camping in the woods in in one form or another, for four or five days, that just provides a certain level of depth of conversation and intimacy amongst participants that's needed to have some of these discussions candidly. Because a lot of the time, the way these kind of conversations roll out is that, you know, someone with capital organizes it or a group like us on the Medigos side says, hey. We wanna convene a certain group of people. And, basically, the challenge is no one group has all of the connections. And because this is an event that I see as a a network of networks type events where given the inherent nature of how DWeb is run. Right? DWeb and the Internet Archive crew are bringing in their direct network, and they do you know, led by Wendy and others there, there's just such great outreach and connection and community building on their side. But, you know, we're also bringing in our networks. And given the people we started inviting, they're bringing some people from their network. And so it's this kind of ripple effect where, you know, you can have Impact Island next to AgTech, next to I'm forgetting the other tracks off the top of my head, but seemingly ones that are not necessarily fully connected on paper, you know, all under this wrapper of migration and movement and change in a way that, you know, we can just have these series of conversations pertaining to not just what is the state of things, not just let's complain about what's wrong, but let's talk about that change. Let's talk about how we can be part of that change and what are the sort of migrations that we're witnessing in these broader macro context, but also what are the things that we can directly work on and contribute as being all of these different stakeholders in the ecosystem. And so, you know, the whole topic again is being rooted in this question of impact because impact itself is this term that gets slung around and means very different things to different people. And to to an attempt to segue, you know, I think when when we think about things like reading groups and whatnot, and what kind of structure and why doing certain things, it does come back to this question of impact if using the term incorrectly. And if to be a little more specific, I would say, what is the desired output or outcome you wanna generate? With the delineation being that impact itself is a long term thing. You know, in program evaluation models, impact is usually a seven plus year occurrence. It's not something that happens the day after an activity takes place. And so for thinking on a shorter term basis after a reading group, right, either you wanna generate, like, notes or some kind of write up or something to that effect, or you want there to be a clear type of discussion and thoughts that people have that hopefully ripple on to other changes. So, you know, for the reading group that I had specifically proposed, that is still, to be determined in terms of specific dates, but there we're thinking of reading The Dispossessed by Ursula Le Guin, and generally taking a more fiction oriented approach towards exploring governance. So there was less of the, say, PhD reading group of let's go read papers, and more of the, you know, let's dive into full worlds that have been created that envision a fundamentally different kind of governance and connection between people. And, yeah, and then just all these other topics that we're talking about look fundamentally different in, you know, especially science fiction rooted worlds. So, yeah, I don't know if that qualifies a good transition or not, but yeah.

Speaker 1: No. No. No. Thank you for all that, Eugene. Very interesting. Natalia, maybe just to kind of, like, telegram a little bit where I'm kind of seeing the rest of our time going. I like to see maybe another, like, five or ten minutes talking in the in the recording and have, like, a five minute off recording debrief. I'd love to see a little bit of what you've been working on with the journal. Love to see some images. If you can share some with us. And then I wanna also maybe just briefly show a policy crafter thing and talk a little bit about a community session that we're gonna run tomorrow. Yeah. And maybe also a little map of the the space at camp. So, Natalia, are you are you are you up for showing us some some images of what you've been you've been cooking?

Speaker 3: I can, but it'll take me a moment to pull them up and screen share. So if you could talk about something else while I do that, that could be nice.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I can definitely do that. I can also share a little bit on my side. So let me share this. This is a little bit from the migration station that we were jamming on yesterday. Also, by the way, this is a really nice, interesting tool called TL draw. Someone in our community and the block science community has also used it to do some really interesting LLM based knowledge management cross organization conversation experiments. So we should actually have them come and talk about that at a seminar sometime soon. But, to to focus a little bit on this, we have a tent, 10 by 10. We might actually get two tents and maybe a stage. So and even last night, I was kind of like, you know what would be really cool is if the station was actually moving through camp, and it was in different locations each day. I think that might be a little hard to pull off, actually, but it's actually not gonna be on the map. So it'll be one of these things that's very word-of-mouth and kind of serendipity based. There's gonna be a couple of tree stumps that we'll set up with the recording, like an audio recording section here. We're gonna display some momentous that people bring. We might even you know, just for kind of, like, to make the space feel like it's the kind of accumulation of the artifacts that you were bringing. I'm also interested in, actually just decorating the space with the stuff that people are bringing. There's gonna be this project called Kusto Disco, which is kind of like a kiosk, and it's really kind of interesting. It's it's using SSBs and which is a a messaging protocol, and it takes, like, a photo of the image. It posts it to SSB, and it also prints a QR code with a drawing that you make. And I think it prints it on I think it you can also set it up so that it prints on fabric, maybe. I can't remember exactly. And then you can, like, sew it into your item, and you can use it as, like, a provenance tag. So people are gonna come and do this, and then audio recording, and then the Internet archive is going to couple those together. We're using raffle tickets as the the unique identifying number. This is amazing in my opinion. And then those will get stored on the Internet archives digitally, and then a select few that are small enough will be put into a time capsule and buried on-site at the Internet archive for, I think, twenty five years and unearthed in 2049. There's also gonna be a board for people to self organize events. We're thinking of things people can come and listen to the stories that people have been telling. There's gonna be some live audio editing that Ryan is gonna be doing. We might also screen some films, and we'll have some speakers so people can listen to the recordings that they've made. And, yeah, I think it's gonna be really nice. I think one thing that would be really cool if anyone is looking at this and kind of getting inspired or also looking at the the event description, which I can share in the chat. It'd be really cool if people had other ideas for things that we should consider for workshops. I'm sure that everyone there will be already having lots of ideas, but it would be nice to populate a couple ideas for people to feel empowered to just take them up if they were interested. One idea was exploring archives that already exist or doing some map drawing workshops or just kind of discussing the future significance of this archive and where it might travel in the future. So if any of that's resonating with you and you're interested in thinking about that with me, join us in the IRL, the webcam channel, in our Slack, and chat with me. And if you know anyone else in our community or outside of our community who might be interested in this or is going to DWeb, please feel welcome to enjoy invite them to the community through our website, and tell them to get in touch with me, in the DWeb channel. So I'm gonna stop sharing and send that Natalia and show us some, images from, the journal.

Speaker 2: Natalia, you're muted. I don't know if you you didn't realize that.

Speaker 3: So this is just my current MagnaGov journal design Google folder. It has a bunch of stuff from MidJourney that I'm just fooling around with, like, cool colors. There are some ways of printing that don't cost infinitely more for colors, and there are ones that do. So I've been looking into that and being careful. And this was my little design deck so far that I was making. I'm just making, like, a little little thing about what the journal could be like, how to how to create a a linear artifact, like a book about, like, kind of fundamentally nonlinear ideas and make it make sense is interesting for sure. Yeah. Like, what is the user experience of, like, going through a thing like this? You know, something like putting three words really big on a page is itself a user experience. Things like being really sporadic is also itself an experience. So that was that was just me messing around. I have a lot of questions. You know? It's just like me rambling. So this is just like a sneak peek into my mind. This is a drawing I made long ago, very, very long ago. And, yeah, we have a journal memes stew Slack channel. The idea there's there's a journal Slack channel also, but also a a just like, if you want to throw things at me that might be journal adjacent, but you are not sure, definitely feel free to just, like, share inspiration with me, and probably something will be done with

Speaker 1: Can you how do people find this channel?

Speaker 3: Oh, I think I have to make it an open channel. Or you could just start in the MetaJuven journal channel. I didn't I I realized I started spamming. Like, just, like, like, posting too many pictures. And then so I make a channel with just just for being spammed with journal stuff versus logistics of the journal. So if you wanna be added to the journal memes and SKU channel, hit me up.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Why don't we I mean, if you like, you can also make it open. I think that having, like, two channels, one that's more, like, logistics operation focused and one that's just, like, brain dump.

Speaker 3: Yeah. That's a brain that's a 4AM brain dump. The the the tagline of that channel, I think,

Speaker 1: is

Speaker 3: literally scroll up. One person's random 3AM brain dump is another person's 1PM intellectual citation is the tagline of that channel.

Speaker 1: Yeah. So if you like, you can make that open and share the hashtag in the channel or sorry. In our chat here. Cool. Bartella, any last thoughts or any last thoughts from anyone here before we close out the recording?

Speaker 3: Oh, yeah. If there's any I know that about half of us here are going and half of us are not. So if any of you want to send little mission requests to me, feel free to do so. Little quests to do at the at the webcam.

Speaker 1: Oh, playable characters. I love it. Choose your choose your meta gov, character at DWeb. That I actually, you know, that would be a really fun way to do, like, an event at some point. Get, like, 10 people from MediGov to go, and then, like, have, like, each person kind of, like, their decisions are kind of being steered by a circle or a group of people, and they're just, like, going around the conference or the event doing things. I I kind of at a remote will of others and then just sort of seeing, like, the kind of it's a little bit like Guy Debord and some of his, like, psychogeography experiments where he would walk through Paris using a map of London. He would, like, plot out a point a and a point b in on the map in London and then figure out how to take that path in Paris. And I always love this kind of, like it's like the original augmented reality experiments. So let's go ahead and close out the recording there, and then we'll have a little time to just kind of talk about the session and have a a closeout. So thanks everyone for watching, and I'm gonna stop this now.