Speaker 1: Great. Welcome everybody to another week of Medigob seminars. Today is 08/30/2023, And we have the second of two oh, sorry. The second of five Groundwork Fellows, presenting today. The Groundwork Fellows are Medigap Fellows, who are participating in our fellowship, looking at the intersection of Internet infrastructure design, governance, and marginalization. And as a result of that research, producing, artifacts that they can share, with our community and the wider community of people interested in this intersection. Last week, we had Amar Manila Hassan, who is presenting on worker cooperative DAOs. I'll show a link to that recording in the chat, and you can also find it on the Internet archive if you're watching this recording. And then this week, we have Michael Swankak, who is gonna be talking to us about some of the work that he's been doing, building a decentralized, secure, and private communication system for Myanmar. Michael has a very long and excellent bio, and I thought maybe it would be nice to to read it so that everyone can get a little bit of background on Michael. So Michael is a civic minded social innovator who has has made a significant impact in India and Myanmar. Well, born and educated in India, he has worked in Myanmar for decades and is known as one of Myanmar one of the Myanmar digital Tarzans of the jungle of Chin state, where he built a community wireless network that connects 20 jungle villages with the mesh network in Chin state. This network serves educational content, including Khan Academy video content, local news, and infotainment on local open source servers, which are maintained by local communities. Prior to this initiative, he was a founding member of the BIT team in 2002 and an organizational manager in New Delhi, India. He has since become a digital security trainer, raising awareness of digital security and digital rights with local and international experts. He is also one of the 150 plus DeBoer Fellows and is currently working with ASTRCOM, which is alternative solutions for rural communities as a director. His current work includes leading research in digital and cybersecurity auditing for change agent organizations, cyber policy development in Asia, and interrogating modern technology integrating modern technology into the education system. His primary interests are digital and cybersecurity policy, law development, and enforcement in Asia. And with that, I'm gonna pass over to Michael who will be presenting some of the research that he's done as part of the fellowship. So take it away, Michael.

Speaker 2: Yes. Thank you very much for the time. And, let me allow me to share my presentation. Okay. So this is me and my family when we went to the the place called Dramsala. It is a place of Tibet movement where the mom's Dalai Lama office there. So I Sands already introduced me about so I I will skip background myself. So I would like to introduce a bit about the Myanmar, the country called Myanmar. So this is in Southeast Asia, and it is very close to Bangladesh and India and China. So the historical context of Myanmar is a bit, how to say, different. Let's say that. So since 1962 to February, it was a dictatorship, totally dictatorship. And then from 2010 to start changing to democracy. And in 02/2015, the the Democratic Party leading by the Dongsang Suu Kyi, who is the daughter of the general Aung San, that NLD party win and from since 2015 to 02/2020, within that period, we got a chance to taste that the democracy a bit. Then the military coup happened in 2021 again. So since the military coup happened, then all the communication shut down, all the livelihoods are not normal. So in terms of Internet shutdown according to NetBlocks, that the the the total Internet is go down to 1616% only. So the country of the population is fifth 54,000,000, and Myanmar have more than 135 ethnic people. It is a very diverse country. So because of that Internet shutdown, so many thing happened. So we can see in the picture, it is show that where no Internet at the at the time where they they they compile that the the report. So that not only affects so the educations and then livelihood and communication and also that the the economics also very much affected by that Internet shutdown. And left side of the picture is in Sakai region. In Myanmar, there's 14 plus one state and region or territory. And in that Sakai regions, we can see a lot of red flex area. Those area are no no more Internet. And those gray area are no more cell phone service, any landline phone or any GSM phone. Then the right size is currently stay. It is very close to Thailand site. And then they there's no Internet at all. So many place are in a gray area, so no telephone, no or any other communication system. So only the two townships have telephone GSM telephone access. So the problem statement for studying the solution of building decentralized, secure, and private communication system in Myanmar. It is like it it is a time to have decentralized communication system because all the communications system are centralized and controlled by the authority, the authoritarian, and they are heavily monitor. They are control they're heavily control. And then recently that people need to register their their own SIM SIM card with the update information. Then with that, they can easily tracking the people where they are, what they are doing, and all the banking system are connected with that telephone number and all the ID, like, the national ID card. NRC are also linked with that. So we cannot depending on that the central centralized communication system because they they all they they have all the information. And then they they they can shut down anytime even though that now, like, big capital still have fiber connection, mobile phone, data Internet connection, but anytime they can shut down. And the security, privacy, and security is very challenging. Everywhere, they start putting the CCTV that connected to Internet, And we also we also got information that the people who are using GSM network that they use a a trangulation method method to trace the people, and they they they the military the the government or the the the hunter use air strike to to pin down pin pinpoint that the information from the cell tower. And then totally that the human rights, there's no more human rights at all. And another thing is, like, economics. So it's totally depending on that the Internet. One research mentioned about that the daily loss due to the Internet shutdown in Myanmar is a $3,240,000. So it's it's been now more than two years. So now people's people in the remote area people in the those without Internet area it's difficult to do business. And they they there's no Internet. They cannot use online transaction, online banking system, and they have to use the cash. And then they they they they have to go to the by themselves, and there's a lot of landmine. And there's the soldiers are waiting to shoot shoot them the the the innocent people. And the the infrastructure is totally damaged, means that due due to the cyclones and due to the disaster, due to the rains or something happened, then no one there to repair because there's a lot of landmine and a lot of restriction. So the picture is there from Chin State. We can see there are many red flags and many some of the gray area and only one or two one or two townships still can use a Internet. So I was working there for more than two decades in Chin States, building the community network and building that that kind of community based learning system, communication system before the coup. So the objective of the this is to find the existing the existing technology and how we can use that technology to to support those community in that that area, that offline Internet. And how can we make sure that the security privacy using that technology? And also that to encourage the local people to come up with the idea or solution because there's we cannot depending on that infrastructure that built by the corporate or government. We have to build the infrastructure by our own. So we all did this objectives is also looking for the civics participation. And then now Zadeh's technology is very smart and and very powerful. So and we like to encourage young generation to look for that and then to to to invent a solution for themselves. And also that without budget or supporting from the other corporate or other NGO or other governments, it cannot be possible. So we also would like to see that the possibility of the other support, like education institution, or school, or others, or who have expert or who have expertise in this field. So, yeah, first, we we heard about that metastatic, and then we test it, and then that we found that it is very, very much useful for the those community. So let's see that what is metastatic. So, metastatic is quite interesting. It is SMS sending platform, and then using that

Speaker 1: the

Speaker 2: unlicensed frequency, JSON frequency. And then it is it is open source community, and then many people are are involving voluntary and the developer also that volunteer. And so far, what we got the update information is that people can communicate. People can send a message to 254 kilometer away. So it is a peer to peer device, communicate peer to peer. And then the mass test stick itself have mass topology. So it the the device itself can act like a router and a client and also that mesh networking. So when we com communicate one purse one one device to another person behind the mounting or behind the line of sight, then then the middle device can be act like a mesh and then like a router. So it can we don't need the other infrastructure to to to to do them. And it is decentralized, and it is very cheap in economic point of view. It is very cheap to buy and very cheap to have, and it is unlicensed. Actually, it is unlicensed. We don't need to give a license and then and we can we can use without any any license. But in Myanmar case, it's another thing. If the soldier see that different things, then they they might think that it is kind of bomb or the the something like that. But it is unlicensed. We don't need to pay for the license fee. And then it is allowed to use a bring everywhere. And in turn security part, it is very interesting. Like, it is the message before sending a message through the the the the GSM networks is encrypted. And the battery using with the metastatic LoRa is very, how say, less power power consumption. So when we test it, one of the 300 3,000 m a h battery, so it can run for twelve hours continuously. And then we can use a solar or external power resource to recharge the battery. And it it also can have, like, a display and also that the GPS. So the the GPS is quite quite accurate compared to the phone and others. Yeah. And that one good thing about that is that the the one person send the message to another person, and then he's not online or he's not in the coverage area. He's moving. Then the system itself can keep and then sending at least for three times until the person got the message. And then the the system can acknowledge that when the person got message, then the sender know that the the receiver got the message. Yeah. So this is the picture from the the person who test it, the more than 254 kilometers. And let's see that the what domestic can do. So so far, the the people's trying to connect a mesh network build a mesh network and then more than 80 device connect and send message each other. And the the mesh testing firmware allows the user to create, like, a sevens, chat group sevens, group. So we can put the people, in the group, or we can send the link or the QR code to join that, secure, chat group. And at the same time, people can send direct message to each other if they know that the number the the name or the code of that user is quite similar to Ham Radio. And then the majestic, firmware itself has a ham radio option. If the person who have a license or knowledge how to use a ham radio, so he or she can use that module and then enable that module, and then they can use that as a ham radio of like a ham radio operator. So it doesn't need any extra extra device or extra amplifier. And good thing about that is is long range. So I have experience in building Wi Fi Wi Fi network, community network. We use, like, a 2.4 gigahertz and 5.8 gigahertz, but we cannot reach to far away. But this small, very beautiful technology, we can communicate up to, like, a more than a 100 mile. So the the the place where I I was working in is this hilly area mounting area. The highest mounting is something like 10,010 more than 10,000 feet. So most of the village are on top of the mountain rain. So it's easily for light of sight. They can see each other, but very far. And then difficult to travel because to travel one village to another, we have to go down to the village river, then go up, and then have to travel something like that. So this metastatic Laura like, is very, powerful for, those, topography. So people can, pick village can see each other, but, difficult to communicate. So for that, we we hope that we can use it. And beautiful part is a mesh network, so we can build as many as we want. So up to 80 is perfectly working, but interesting to test it more than 80. And so some people also asking about that. Is this LoRaWAN part of the LoRaWAN networks? It is message. It is not LoRaWAN things. It is a a difference because the the technology IoT is the same, but it communicates peer to peer and then have it owns a mesh networking system. And before it has only for it only support for Android. For Android, it's a recommendation is Android six and above. But now it also support the Apple's Apple device, like a MacBook, iPad, or iPhone. And then yeah. So this is the metastatic, Laura. It's a TTGO. So what is TTGO? And then how many types of metastatic supported device? We we are going to see that. So there's some company producing that device supporting that device supported by the master stick firmware and application app. I what I have, one is a T Beam. It's a company called Lilligo in China, and then they have a a different model, a different device, and then different models. So even though under the Lilligo, they have a t echo model and also that Laura. Send some others are very also very powerful, like a health tech. Laura, Tajichu, also very good one. So let's see that, what is t beam. So within the t beam, there's many different version. And then before the t beam version one is 0.7, and the one I am testing is version 1.1. And there's many others version hardware version also. So the what is that the the the component of the Lirigo T Beam version 1.1? It has okay. Let's see that. So this is the picture of the t beam and then how to look and how to how how how to know that the different model and different so because the the different hardware have a different firmware even though that they are using that them assessing. So this is the more detail about that, the the the hardware design and each and everything. So let's see that what are they in roughly. It's user ESP 32. It is called, let's say, controller microcontroller. And ESP 32 have Bluetooth Wi Fi feature. And to communicate, it use a LoRa transceiver. LoRa is a low ring low power, long range. And the TV version 1.1 has a Semtex s x one two seven six, that transceiver. That transverse is quite quite, for me, is quite good. And then according to my study, it it's also quite stable. And the frequency, it used how to say that the unlicensed one. And then there's a option we can choose that depending on the region we are going to use. There's a four three three megahertz, eight six eight megahertz, nine one five megahertz. In in US, mostly the the the device, nine one nine one five megahertz. But the Europe and India, mostly they use a a c a megahertz one. So the the message is a the firmware itself has a ready made. So we only need to choose the the the the country name. Something like in India, whenever we choose that IN, then it choose that the definite, the legal spectrum one. So if the person used in Thailand, they he can choose. In in Europe, he can choose the country name. Then the GPS, there are two, three kinds of GPS, but in, T Beam version 1.1, it has, Neo six m. And it is not the best one, but it is good because T Beam is kind of inexpensive inexpensive one. Then the the battery quality is kind of expensive. And it has a connector. It's a micro USB for power charger and also for the updating firmware and then and and looking inside the log file. And then that USB, we we also can use with the Android chargers. It mean this message, we can need to need need to operate with the three point sevens voltage DC voltage. But, we we we we can recharge that battery with the Android phone battery. Android and and Android phone adapter is a five, five voltage. And then instead of that electric power source, we can use, like, a five voltage of solar cell or solar panel so that we have tested. So this is the detail of T Beam, Lilligo T Beam version 1.1. It has MCU. It is a ESP 32 for Wi Fi and Bluetooth, and LoRa transceiver is used s x one two seven six. And the frequency is depending on that we can choose which one we want to use it. And it has GPS, and then the the the displays module is is a option. If you want that, you can choose you can have it display option. So the this depend. And the features the Excuse me. Michael? Sorry.

Speaker 1: Yes. We're at about twenty minutes. So maybe in the next, like, three or four minutes, if you could Yeah. Kind of Sure. Draw some conclusions, then then we can move on to discussion. Sure. Sure. Sure.

Speaker 2: So let me finish this one in quick. So the the the more I I would like to share about is what finding we have. So this is the picture of that the country using that different spectrum. So in India, it's the AC five to AC seven megahertz. And this is the I ISM band, 2.4 and then so many bands. So I shared that the whole document, in in in in a chart so, you can check. And the interesting part is what what we have tested and what we have found in. So we test it in Dramsala. Dramsala is a hill and mountain area and very dense forest. It is located above sea levels, 6,500 feet, and very similar to. And the test we test in a rainy season rainy rainy days and then not snowing because it is a summer in India. Rainy dense forest. And we were there for twelve days testing different different things. We test in the river. We we test in the mountain. We test in the forest, and we test in the crowded area. This is a test objective, but because of time constraints, I'll skip for that. Test methodology. And this is what the the test you know, some images from the the the from the field. And, yeah, as I mentioned, we use that in a long first in India, ACFIs, the frequency. Then we test with the fives of that, metastatic, Laura. And interesting part is that line of sight, it according to the this kind of things, it work or line of sight. But we test it, so we we went to the river and then in in and then we still can get the connection. We we went to the deep forest, and we still can get the respond. So that one is very interesting. And okay. Another one is that the twelve hours battery can last. So if we have a two battery, then it will be twenty four hour. Then and we we can have it because all the panel to return. And interesting one, another part is that language encoding. So, like, ASCII, it can send one message, one SMS. We can send, say, two five six character. But if the Unico, like a Hindi or Burmese or Thai Unico form, then it is half. Like, a one two eight character in SMS one SMS we can send. But many SMS we can send. We don't need to pay. Yeah. So that what we test here. And then what we want to do next is that we want to test more, like, with more than 100 device, and we want to test it. And, also, we want to test with the the diff different solo cells, but we cannot buy good quality solo in India. When I check Amazon in Canada, they have a very good solos. So we want to test with that and also that we want to print with the three d printer for the cover and then, like, a water resistant waterproof cover. Those thing, we want to test it. And then another interesting is that there is there is one app developed by The US military people. It's called ATTEND. So with that attack, there is a one guy is developed that plug in. That plug in, we can use with metastatic LoRa with the that attack. So what is that attack? Attack is like coordinating the people depending on the their GPS location without Internet or without satellite connection. So that part also very interesting to test. So I tested different model, like a short antenna and a middle antenna and high antenna, and I tested with the solar cells, different solar cells, and then different design. But it is just a prototype because I don't have yet a three d printer or I don't know where to print that cover. So this kind of solos are very interesting. It is from Canada, Amazon. So they it's, like, look good and nice and very powerful. It is has, like, something like a 12 watt 12 watt of of five volts. So and then if we if if we can buy it like this, then then it we we can we can put that the necessity, Laura, on the top of the existed telco tower, like a 100 feet high. Then in with that, we we can act like a a mesh or a router, then then other people can access through that. Then we can build the private communication, decentralized private and secure communication system in. And then, yeah, that is the idea. So this idea, this findings, I have

Speaker 1: Sorry. We're so we're at thirty minutes now. And I think Sure. Just to Sure. For the benefit of having some discussion with everyone in the the call, I think we should move into discussion. Okay. So, yes, thank you for presenting the very extensive research that you've done on the kind of design space here. The so I'd love to take some liberties with the order in which the questions are coming in at the moment. Because I think this question from from the might be a really good grounding question for kind of connecting the work that you've been doing at the technical level with the ways in which people are interfacing with it at the social community based level. Bea, would you like to maybe give some voice to your question?

Speaker 3: Sure thing. Yeah. I was curious, you know, I I'll admit I joined late, but I got to hear a little bit about how some of these, you know one, the kind of locations communities are in, but also how these tools are really kind of enabling connectivity for folks in new ways, which is exciting. But I was curious if you could speak a little bit more to what people are using these systems for. And then just was curious, and I know maybe it's early days, but how you know, something I've heard with people deploying tools like this out in the field is that, you know, it might start with one use case or one assumption of what these tools will be used for, but then as people experiment and try things out, the relationship with these technologies might change. And I was curious if you'd observed any of that.

Speaker 2: Yeah. So far, that what I see is that the people using this technology for this device, specifically for hiking. So when they hide, so there's no Internet connection. So for that, they use this for communicate each other, sending message, and knowing where the person is where. So GPS location. And another one another one that my assumption is that okay. Back to the Myanmar Myanmar, there's a lot of landmine. So I'm thinking I'm I'm thinking I want to do the research on the how to how to detect a landmine and put on the map. So the people who have this device and then adding the external module, then then that module will detect that the iron iron things, then it will pinpoint that where it detected. Then then it will pinpoint on the map, then it will share to the community. Then the community will know that where the landmine is. Then then the expert can come and, you know, remove the landmine. That is my assumption. And then I see that some people in Ukraine also using this one, and some other people also trying to use this device to control the drone, a handmade handmade drone that can monitor or that can bring the the the bomb to the destination. So different peoples are testing using different purpose, actually. Yeah.

Speaker 1: Great. Thank you, Thank you, Michael. There's kind of a maybe

Speaker 2: there's,

Speaker 1: like, a joint question here between Yanis and Luke kind of kind of around security, but then also how that, like, interfaces with other communication networks. So, like, Luke is curious to hear a little bit more about the relationship between the communication networks that you're talking about in the military Junta. If there are any risks to individuals using the network, does the military know about it, and has this had any impact on the design? And, Janice, is also interested in, like, the question of security and how hackable the network is. And if either of you wanna jump in and, like, flash chat any part of that, please feel free.

Speaker 2: Mhmm. So so far that we heard about that is there are some comrades on the ground. They are they are transmitting FM radio using something like one zero eight megahertz or something like that. Then they said that whenever they transmit the the the whenever they own the FM transmitter, then the the the attack or the artillery come to the that area. So somehow that the military can detect from where the transmitting come from. Maybe. Or maybe there is some informer within the team. But one interesting is that the existing telco tower may know that where another frequency is operating between the the tower. So if there's a existing telco tower, then whose which are controlled by which are accessible by the expert, then then the telco tower information may have this frequency and the location. So there's a possibility is there. But on the other hands, the Myanmar military, as far as we know, they are not they are not expert in this field. Maybe the Russia or China may help or may may may may train them or may Myanmar, Hunter, hire the expert from China or Russia or North Korea, maybe. But so far, yeah, it's it's I feel like it's not dangerous because they are not they cannot come to everywhere. Only they can send their their their helicopter or attack fighter jet or utterly only. Yeah.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Thank you. Luke, and Janice, did you wanna add anything to that? Okay. Yes. Yes. Very interesting. Thank you. So one question that maybe I'll add here since there's none left in the chat. If you have questions, please post them there. You you know, I think the the way that you were talking about the relationship between the geography of these towns on the hills and the the kind of infrastructure considerations that you take into account when you're designing networks for them. I thought that was really interesting, and I guess I'm wondering if you have any sense of how that kind of spatial distance has an impact on, like, some of the ways in which the people in these communities might govern their own mesh networks, but then also how they might kind of, you know, govern their relationships between each other. So I'm wondering if there are any kind of lessons from how these communities govern themselves pre like, prior to this kind of infrastructure implementation and how some of that transfers into the end of infrastructure design that you're working on.

Speaker 2: Yes. Regarding we study about that the chin, the implement implementation in chin state. Chin state have existing infrastructure. That is one is TV station and on the mountain, and another one is a microwave before the fiber or Jason phone came. There's a microwave tower, and the the the thought is that telco tower. But those towers are not easily accessible because the hunter put landmine around the tower. We don't know exactly where the landmine is. So those those especially, like, the microwave. Microwave has a well construct and well measure how to communicate the whole chain state that that's a very unique one. We can if we can put that the the this, elastic, Laura with the solar system and power bank on the on top of the tower, then then definitely we can cover the whole state easily to come to to build a network. Then the community community can also participate in in in in without accessing accessing to the existing tower, they they can have they can build their own bamboo tower or any others material available locally, then they can put up on on on that top. Let let's say the 20 feet or 40 feet, they can put up on top that. Then the another challenge is that power system because there's no power. There's no electricity. There's no battery. So we we have to think about that power solution. So mostly in in in that area, in Chin States, they they can have at least five hours sunlight in a day. So within if we have a solar cell, solar panel, a bigger watt, bigger ampere that within five hours with the solar energy, then we can recharge the power bank. Then that power bank can run up to twelve hour or eighteen hour, then that solution would be okay. But another challenge we have is that if the power down less than that require power, then then the system will be shut off tunnel. But how to turn on it back without touching that device? This is a bit tricky. We need to use another controller, that controller to control that the power system. So possibility is there. Community can participate. And and another one is that if there's a way to know that how to skip the landmine, then we can access the tower, then we can put on the tower. Because mostly the tower owned by the company, the company very close to the Honda, but they they they how to say, they are not coming to the the checking the tower frequently. So it's it's still accessible, but the the thing is how to skip the how to detect the landmine that puts around the tower.

Speaker 1: Great. Thank you for that, Michael. So there was a there was a question earlier in the chat from Luke around the the map satellite image that you showed us earlier. And since we have a little more free time now, there was some interest in going back and maybe kind of explaining that image a little more. I think it wasn't entirely clear what the lines were showing, if the lines were showing the path the signal took or something else. So if you and maybe, Luke, if you wanna clarify, you can also post in the chat.

Speaker 2: Yeah. This one or the back one?

Speaker 1: The the back one. I think I think it was the first image that you showed us with the the kind of lines over top of it.

Speaker 2: Yeah. This one. Yeah. So this one is from, I think, in Canada and US borders. He is testing over

Speaker 1: there. And can you just walk a little bit through, like, what the lines mean, what the arrows are pointing to? Like, help us kind of understand this this map a little better.

Speaker 2: So definite I I don't know that how what program he used and then and normally, like, you're building a community manual using that the 2.4 or 5.8 of of spectrums. We can we can have, like, settle we can access a satellite Internet satellite images, and then we can put the the measurement, and then we can calculate, and we can know that the obstruct of obstructor. So it's something like that. He put on the mounting of one device and then in a play area, another device. But I think that generating this kind of thing is using another software to generate and and measure. Because that the the antenna is a opt omnidirectional. It is not the directional things. It's something like this. So it is omnidirectional. So this how to say that this metastatic, Laura can transmit, three sixty degree, not only directional. But I think, he used that another software to make it interesting. Yeah. Is it okay? Yeah.

Speaker 1: If there are more questions, thank you. And then yes. So there there is a follow-up here. So is the purple line the maximum reach

Speaker 2: of the signal? Okay. This is the design for sending SMS, and then one SMS, we can send, like, a two five six maximum mean the one batch. So many people also request about that. Can we use for Internet connection? Can we use can we use it for sending voice messages or attachment file or something like that? But the design itself is not purpose for that. So it's only can send the small small number of message. But many other people are also using this IoT things for, like, a mini weather station or detecting the swells composition or the so many other things like getting that the message. So the design, we are we are thinking for the the chin who who who are in the revolution. Now the administrate administrative people, the administrator, they they they have to go communicate with the villagers. So now they are using the human to send the message and to deliver message. Instead of that, we we can help them to compile that code of the message. So the message will be already there. They already have the paper, but the code of that message, then they can send to this device. So instead of sending a long message, they can send the coopener message, then they can check with that, the paper they already have. Then then when they receive that the code, then then they can check with the book, and then they can do that. Then they can send it back the code, something like that. So the the bandwidth that can that can transmit that can carry is a very, very small small.

Speaker 1: Great. Thank you for that detailed explanation. So maybe with the remaining time, maybe what would be interesting is, you know so you've been working on this, and I guess maybe if there are other people who are in the call or who listen to this recording later and are interested in contributing to the research or also just learning more, either about the kind of context in Myanmar or the work that you're doing specifically? Are there any, resources that you would recommend or, ways of contacting you in order to, you know, have a discussion about the research that you're doing? Yeah.

Speaker 2: I think I can share my signal number and email here in the chat.

Speaker 1: While you're doing that, I just wanna thank you again for no. Not a QR code. There'll be something in the chat. But, yeah, I just wanna take the time to thank you again for coming to present the work that you've been doing. And as is customary, we always like to thank our guests for their presentations. So I welcome everybody to unmute, if you like. Turn on your video, and, give a round of applause to Michael. Three, two, one.

Speaker 2: Thank you. Thank you.

Speaker 1: Yes. Thank you so much. Yes. Perfect. And then Michael has also shared information in the chat, if anyone is interested in staying in touch with him and his research. So with that, I will end we'll ask Nathan to end the recording.